mistaken diagnoses in continuous muscle fiber activity of peripheral nerve origin . the syndrome of continuous muscle fiber activity of peripheral nerve origin has manifestations that resemble those of many other more common neurologic disorders during childhood and infancy . this similarity often leads to misdiagnosis when an adequate index of suspicion is not entertained and a comprehensive electromyographic examination is not performed . two affected patients from 1 family are reported to illustrate the type of diagnostic errors that were made before the establishment of the correct diagnosis . 
dystrophin analysis in the differential diagnosis of autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy of childhood and duchenne muscular dystrophy . we report 2 patients with childhood autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy . both patients had slight muscle weakness without enlargement of the calf muscles or involvement of the facial muscles . their clinical courses are static . muscle histology revealed characteristic features of muscular dystrophy . dystrophin was identifiable in the sarcolemma of both patients by immunocytochemical staining with an antidystrophin antibody . at an early age , immunocytochemical analysis with antidystrophin antibody was useful in distinguishing between childhood autosomal recessive and duchenne muscular dystrophies . 
abnormalities of the long arm of chromosome 6 in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia . to determine the biologic significance of the structural rearrangements of the long arm of chromosome 6 ( 6q ) in acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) at diagnosis , we studied 412 consecutive children whose leukemic cell chromosomes had been completely banded and identified 45 ( 11 % ) children with this abnormality . the 45 cases were divided into del ( 6q ) only ( n = 11 ) , del ( 6q ) and numerical abnormalities ( n = 4 ) , del ( 6q ) and structural abnormalities ( n = 23 ) , and 6q translocations ( n = 7 ) . the breakpoints of del ( 6q ) were subgrouped : del ( 6 ) ( q15q21 ) in 11 cases , del ( 6 ) ( q13q21 ) in six , del ( 6 ) ( q21q23 ) in four , del ( 6 ) ( q15 ) in four , del ( 6 ) ( q15q23 ) in three , and other deletions in 10 cases . notably , all these deletions encompassed the 6q21 band , suggesting that this might be the locus of a recessive tumor suppressor gene , the absence of which contributes to malignant transformation or proliferation . among the seven children with 6q translocations , a previously unidentified nonrandom translocation , t ( 6 ; 12 ) ( q21 ; p13 ) was noted in two cases with an early pre-b immunophenotype . clinical features and event-free survival were similar among children with or without 6q abnormalities . overall , children with 6q abnormalities were less likely than those without the abnormality to have a pre-b immunophenotype ( p = .03 ) . t-cell immunophenotypes were equally represented in cases with or without 6q abnormalities . however , all four children with del ( 6q ) and a 12p abnormality had early pre-b all and all three children with del ( 6q ) and a 9p abnormality had a t-cell immunophenotype . the lack of specificity for a particular immunophenotype may imply that the gene or genes affected by 6q abnormalities are broadly active in the multistep process of lymphoid leukemogenesis . the relatively high frequency of microscopically visible del ( 6q ) indicates the need for molecular studies to identify cases with submicroscopic deletions . 
mean arterial blood pressure changes in premature infants and those at risk for intraventricular hemorrhage . bedside microcomputer-derived , minute-to-minute mean arterial pressure ( map ) values during the first 48 hours of life were studied in 100 preterm babies with birth weight less than or equal to 1500 gm . in those babies ( n = 72 ) with no periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage ( pv-ivh ) or with grade 1 pv-ivh , the map values increased during the study period , with minute-to-minute variation and interval undulation . the map values in those with birth weight greater than 1000 gm were higher than in those of lower birth weight . infants in whom grades 2 to 4 pv-ivh developed ( n = 28 ) had consistently lower map values during the study period . minute-to-minute variability , expressed as the average of the coefficients of variation at 15-minute intervals , did not differ between birth weight groups , nor did they differ between the pv-ivh group and their matched control subjects . however , those with pv-ivh spent a greater percentage of time , with a coefficient of variation greater than or equal to 13 % or less than 3 % , than their matched control subjects spent ( p less than 0.005 ) . this study provides reference data for map changes in premature babies . the observed map changes in those with pv-ivh lend support to a significant role for map alterations in the pathogenesis of pv-ivh . 
measurement of progressive cerebral ventriculomegaly in infants after grades iii and iv intraventricular hemorrhages . to develop guidelines that might help predict prospectively which infants with severe intraventricular hemorrhage ( ivh ) would require intervention , we obtained serial cranial sonograms to measure the rate of growth of cerebral ventricular volumes in 48 preterm infants with and without ivh . the infants were divided into three groups : ( 1 ) those with no ivh ( 22 infants ) , ( 2 ) those with ivh with acute ventricular dilation ( 13 infants ) , and ( 3 ) those with ivh with progressive ventricular dilation requiring intervention ( 13 infants ) . the decision to intervene because of progressive ventricular dilation was based on clinical criteria and the subjective assessment of increasing ventricular size on weekly cranial sonograms . the rate of cerebral ventricular volume growth in infants with ivh who needed intervention was greater ( 4.2 + / - 3.3 ml/day ) than that in infants without ivh ( 0.0 + / - 0.1 ml/day ; p less than 0.001 ) and in infants with ivh and acute ventricular dilation ( 0.0 + / - 0.2 ml/day ; p less than 0.001 ) . using these data , we generated guidelines for predicting prospectively which infants with ivh and ventricular dilation will need intervention for posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus . the guidelines were then confirmed prospectively in 10 infants . 
neonatal body proportionality and body composition after in utero exposure to cocaine and marijuana . the relationship of maternal use of marijuana and cocaine during pregnancy to measures of neonatal body proportionality and body composition was assessed in a multiethnic sample of 1082 newborn infants . maternal use of marijuana and cocaine during pregnancy was ascertained by self-report and by an enzyme-multiplied immunoassay technique for screening of urine samples obtained prenatally and again post partum . after each substance was analytically controlled for use of the other and for other potentially confounding variables , detection of marijuana metabolites in maternal urine was associated ( p less than 0.05 ) with depressed mean arm muscle circumference and nonfat area of the arm but not with any measure of neonatal fatness . in contrast , detection of cocaine in maternal urine was associated ( p less than 0.05 ) with decrements of subscapular fat folds and of the fat and nonfat areas of the arm . although both substances were associated with depressed birth weight , there was no decrement of neonatal ponderal index or of the arm circumference/head circumference ratio in association with exposure to either substance . we conclude that both marijuana exposure and cocaine exposure during pregnancy are associated with symmetric intrauterine growth retardation , but that deficits are in differing compartments of intrauterine growth . these findings suggest that marijuana may retard fetal growth through maternal-fetal hypoxia , whereas cocaine may alter nutrient transfer to the fetus and fetal metabolism . 
dysmorphogenesis elicited by microinjected acetaminophen analogs and metabolites in rat embryos cultured in vitro . direct additions of acetaminophen ( apap ) , 3,5-dimethylacetaminophen , 3-hydroxyacetaminophen or 3-methoxyacetaminophen to the medium of cultured embryos each produced an increased incidence of morphologically similar , abnormally open anterior neuropores . approximate concentrations required to produce an equal incidence were 0.5 mm , 1.0 mm , 0.1 mm and 0.75 mm , respectively . in contrast , 2.6-dimethylacetaminophen and n-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine failed to produce elevated incidences of abnormal neurulation unaccompanied by marked growth retardation . however , with intra-amniotic microinjections , 3-hydroxyacetaminophen and n-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine were roughly equipotent for eliciting abnormal neurulation , whereas 3-methoxyacetaminophen required greater than 30-fold higher concentrations . this suggests that n-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine does not readily transit the visceral yolk sac and would likely not be a major factor in apap-elicited neural tube abnormalities unless generated in target tissues . the differential effects produced by two dimethylated ( 2.6 and 3.5 ) apap analogs further suggest that sulfhydryl oxidation is associated more closely than sulfhydryl conjugation with the neurulation defect . intra-amniotic microinjections of large quantities ( 3500 ng ) of 7-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene ( 7-oh-aaf ) or apap failed to produce the specific neurulation defect . microinjections of 7-oh-aaf into the exocoelomic cavity effected the characteristic abnormal neurulation . conversion by conceptal homogenates of 7-oh-aaf was roughly 7 - to 8-fold more rapid than conversion of apap to respective catechol metabolites , and specific activities in yolk sac tissues were greater than those in the embryo . rates of conceptal conversion to the quinoneimine were approximately 2 - to 3-fold lower than catechol generation . 
mayer-rokitansky-kuster-hauser syndrome with splenosis . a case report . this is the first reported case of simultaneously occurring pelvic splenosis and mayer-rokitansky-kuster-hauser syndrome . no other congenital or anatomic abnormalities were observed in the patient , and she had no history of abdominal trauma or surgery . endometriosis was suspected initially during laparoscopy for pelvic pain . after tissue removal at laparotomy , the histologic evaluation established the diagnosis of splenosis . biopsy at laparoscopy should be considered to confirm the diagnosis in the presence of a congenital anomaly and lesions suspected of being endometriotic . 
transmission of hiv-1 infections from mothers to infants in haiti . impact on childhood mortality and malnutrition . the cds/jhu aids project team . of 4588 pregnant women in a high-risk haitian population , 443 ( 9.7 % ) were serologically positive for the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) . infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive were more likely to be premature , of low birth weight , and malnourished at 3 and 6 months of age than were infants born to women who were hiv-1 seronegative . increased mortality was observed in infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive by 3 months of age . at 12 months of age , 23.4 % of the infants born to women who were hiv-1 seropositive had died compared with 10.8 % of the infants born to women who were hiv-1 seronegative ; at 24 months of age , the mortality rates were 31.3 % and 14.2 % , respectively . maternal hiv-1 infections resulted in an 11.7 % increase in the overall infant mortality rate in this population . the estimated mother-to-infant hiv-1 transmission rate in these breast-fed infants was 25 % , similar to the rates reported for non-breast-fed populations in the united states and europe . 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for the circulatory support of children after repair of congenital heart disease . we have treated 39 infants and children with congenital heart disease with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation during the past 5 years . thirty-six were treated for low cardiac output or pulmonary vasoreactive crisis after repair of congenital heart defects . twenty-two ( 61 % ) survived . most patients were cannulated from the neck via the right internal jugular vein and the right common carotid artery . six patients were cannulated from the chest , including three who had separate drainage of the left side of the heart with a left atrial cannula . two of these patients survived and were the only survivors of the nine patients cannulated in the operating room because they could not be weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass after open cardiac operations . we also reviewed 312 patients ( the predictor study series ) having open cardiac operations before the availability of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ; 27 of these patients died . data were collected at 1 and 8 hours postoperatively to determine if any parameters might predict early mortality . with these parameters used as criteria , patients who went on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation were as sick as those who died before extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was available . the most common complication was bleeding related to heparinization . the mean transfusion requirement in survivors was 1.50 + / - 1.13 ml/kg/hr , 5.63 + / - 7.0 ml/kg/hr in the nonsurvivors , and 7.46 + / - 8.29 ml/kg/hr in those cannulated in the operating room because they could not be weaned from bypass . four children had intracranial hemorrhage , and two of them died . there was one late death . nine of the 22 survivors are entirely normal . all survivors who do not have down 's syndrome are considered to have normal central nervous system function . we conclude that extracorporeal membrane oxygenation can improve survival in patients with both pulmonary artery hypertension and low cardiac output after operations for congenital heart disease . 
the metabolic consequences of a " washed " cardiopulmonary bypass pump-priming fluid in children undergoing cardiac operations . the substrate load of the pump-priming fluid , especially glucose and lactate , has a major influence on the metabolic response of children during cardiac operations and may be detrimental neurologically . it is possible to cleanse the priming fluid of these excess substrates by ultrafiltration followed by the addition of a balanced electrolyte solution . we have used this technique in the bypass management of nine children over 1 year of age and weighing less than 18 kg who were studied from induction of anesthesia to 6 hours postoperatively . frequent blood samples were taken for measurement of electrolytes , intermediary metabolites , and stress-related hormones . throughout the study period electrolyte concentrations were maintained within the physiologic range and changes in blood glucose and lactate were minimized compared with those of matched historical controls from previous studies . during the period of cardiopulmonary bypass mean serum glucose concentrations varied between 4.4 and 7.7 mmol/l and peaked at 10.7 mmol/l just before skin closure . the mean serum lactate concentration did not exceed 2.3 mmol/l during the period studied . thus ultrafiltration of the priming fluid and replacement with a balanced electrolyte solution results in the delivery to the patient of a reasonably physiologic substrate load , which is reflected in improved control of mean plasma intermediary metabolite concentrations . the method may form the basis of further clinical studies to determine specific aspects of the metabolic stress response in children . 
pleuroperitoneal shunt for persistent pleural drainage after fontan procedure . persistent effusions of chylous fluid may prolong the hospitalization period of many patients who have had a fontan procedure . herein we report the case histories of two patients in whom use of a pleuroperitoneal shunt to control the effusion shortened the hospital stay by several weeks . 
antenatal intervention for congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation . in 2 fetuses with congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation ( ccam ) with hydrops , in-utero resection of the enlarged pulmonary lobe reduced mediastinal shift and allowed expansion of normal lung tissue in both cases . in case 1 , the 27-week-gestation fetus died from severe hydrops after premature delivery . in case 2 , fetal ccam resection was completed at 23 weeks ' gestation . at 30 weeks a girl was delivered with no evidence of pulmonary hypoplasia . fetal surgery can now be entertained for otherwise fatal space-occupying intrathoracic lesions . 
the ivh complex of lesions : cerebrovascular injury in the preterm infant . the term intraventricular hemorrhage has become associated with a variety of cerebrovascular insults in preterm infants . because of a shared pathophysiology and timing , these are the neurologic lesions to search for when evaluating sick preterm infants . this complex of lesions is common and , when parenchymal injury occurs , likely to result in neurologic sequelae . a review of the variety of injuries , their pathophysiology , their diagnosis by cranial ultrasonography , and their prognosis is offered . emphasis is placed on the need for assessment over time when evaluating parenchymal lesions in preterm infants . 
congenital syphilis presenting in infants after the newborn period background and methods . there has been a recent , dramatic increase in the incidence of congenital syphilis , particularly in urban areas . we describe seven infants seen during one year who were first given a diagnosis of congenital syphilis at 3 to 14 weeks of age , when symptoms developed . we reviewed these infants ' charts in order to ascertain the reasons for the failure to diagnose syphilis at birth and to identify the signs and symptoms of congenital syphilis in this group of infants . results . at delivery , four of the infants and their mothers had negative qualitative rapid-plasma-reagin tests for syphilis . the other three mothers had been seronegative during the pregnancy and were therefore not tested at delivery ; two of their infants were seronegative at birth , and one was not tested . when the infants became symptomatic between 3 and 14 weeks of age and were admitted to the hospital , all seven infants and the five mothers available for testing were found to be seropositive for syphilis . four infants presented with a characteristic diffuse rash ; the other three presented with fever and were found on admission to have aseptic meningitis . all these infants had multisystem disease , as evidenced by hepatomegaly , increased aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase levels , anemia , and monocytosis . in all the infants syphilis responded to parenteral penicillin . conclusions . congenital syphilis may be missed if serologic tests are not performed for both the mother and her infant at the time of delivery . even when these tests are performed , some infants are not identified as having syphilis , probably because the infection is very recent and there has been insufficient time for an antibody response to develop . some infants with congenital syphilis of later onset do not present with a typical rash ; therefore , at least in areas where the disease is prevalent , serologic tests for syphilis should be included in the evaluation of all febrile infants , even those with negative results on serologic testing at birth . 
mutations within the rhodopsin gene in patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa . background . night blindness is an early symptom of retinitis pigmentosa . the rod photoreceptors are responsible for night vision and use rhodopsin as the photosensitive pigment . methods and results . we found three mutations in the human rhodopsin gene ; each occurred exclusively in the affected members of some families with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa . two mutations were c-to-t transitions involving separate nucleotides of codon 347 ; the third was a c-to-g transversion in codon 58 . each mutation corresponded to a change in one amino acid residue in the rhodopsin molecule . none of these mutations were found in 106 unrelated normal subjects who served as controls . when the incidence of these three mutations was added to that of a previously reported mutation involving codon 23 , 27 of 150 unrelated patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa ( 18 percent ) were found to carry one of these four defects in the rhodopsin gene . all 27 patients had abnormal rod function on monitoring of their electroretinograms . it appears that patients with the mutation involving codon 23 probably descend from a single ancestor . conclusions . in some patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa , the disease is caused by one of a variety of mutations of the rhodopsin gene . 
expression of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator corrects defective chloride channel regulation in cystic fibrosis airway epithelial cells the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator ( cftr ) was expressed in cultured cystic fibrosis airway epithelial cells and cl - channel activation assessed in single cells using a fluorescence microscopic assay and the patch-clamp technique . expression of cftr , but not of a mutant form of cftr ( delta f508 ) , corrected the cl - channel defect . correction of the phenotypic defect demonstrates a causal relationship between mutations in the cftr gene and defective cl - transport which is the hallmark of the disease . 
expression and characterization of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator cystic fibrosis ( cf ) is a common lethal genetic disease that manifests itself in airway and other epithelial cells as defective chloride ion absorption and secretion , resulting at least in part from a defect in a cyclic amp-regulated , outwardly-rectifying cl - channel in the apical surface . the gene responsible for cf has been identified and predicted to encode a membrane protein termed the cf transmembrane conductance regulator ( cftr ) . identification of a cryptic bacterial promoter within the cftr coding sequence led us to construct a complementary dna in a low-copy-number plasmid , thereby avoiding the deleterious effects of cftr expression on escherischia coli . we have used this cdna to express cftr in vitro and in vivo . here we demonstrate that cftr is a membrane-associated glycoprotein that can be phosporylated in vitro by camp-dependent protein kinase . polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies directed against distinct domains of the protein immunoprecipitated recombinant cftr as well as the endogenous cftr in nonrecombinant t84 cells . partial proteolysis fingerprinting showed that the recombinant and non-recombinant proteins are indistinguishable . these data , which establish several characteristics of the protein responsible for cf , will now enable cftr function to be studied and will provide a basis for diagnosis and therapy . 
cloning of a gene that is rearranged in patients with choroideraemia choroideraemia ( tapetochoroidal dystrophy , tcd ) , a common form of x-linked blindness , is characterized by progressive dystrophy of the choroid , retinal pigment epithelium and retina . previous studies have assigned the tcd gene to a small segment of the xq21 band . by making use of reverse genetics strategies we have isolated eight overlapping complementary dna clones from the same chromosomal region . the corresponding gene is expressed in retina , choroid and retinal pigment epithelium . the cdnas encompass an open reading frame of 948 base pairs that is structurally altered in eight tcd patients with deletions , and in a female patient with a balanced translocation involving xq21 . these findings provide strong evidence that we have cloned the gene underlying choroideraemia . elucidation of its function should provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms responsible for this disorder and other hereditary retinopathies . 
magnetic resonance imaging in mayer-rokitansky-kuster-hauser syndrome . six girls with suspected rokitansky syndrome underwent magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) and then sonography and laparoscopy to confirm the clinical diagnosis and define the precise characteristics of the malformation . the uterus was missing in all ; four had mullerian rudiments in place of the uterus , which were cavitary in two as shown by sonography and in one by mri . both ovaries were present in all cases , normally located in four and extrapelvic in two ; they were correctly identified by mri in all cases and by sonography in four . partially canalized vaginal rudiments were recognized by mri in two girls and by sonography in one . one patient had unilateral renal agenesis , demonstrated by both mri and sonography . magnetic resonance imaging was more precise than laparoscopy and sonography in defining the anatomical characteristics of rokitansky syndrome , and is less invasive and expensive than laparoscopy . 
evaluation of a perinatal autopsy protocol : influence of the prenatal diagnosis conference team . this study was designed to evaluate changes in the perinatal autopsy following the adoption of a new autopsy protocol . the university of utah medical center has a prenatal diagnosis conference team composed of obstetricians , pediatricians , geneticists , and other health care professionals . these individuals are involved in the care of patients whose pregnancies are at risk for congenital malformations . an autopsy protocol was designed to increase the interaction of the pathologist with the prenatal diagnosis conference team in the evaluation of perinatal death . two years , 1982 and 1987 , before and after the protocol was implemented , were selected for retrospective review . the autopsies in 1987 made more specific diagnoses compared with those in 1982 . additional congenital anomalies were diagnosed , and increased numbers of patients were found to have well-described congenital disorders . the number of attempted postnatal autopsy chromosome studies increased and more chromosomal abnormalities were detected . the final autopsy diagnoses made in 1987 have provided more information to the physician for genetic or other patient counseling . after the protocol was adopted , increased numbers of cases were referred to the medical center for evaluation at autopsy . more of those who came to autopsy had been evaluated during life by members of the prenatal diagnosis conference team . premortem sonograms had been done at an earlier gestational age and a greater number of anomalies were detected . fewer of the fetuses had intrauterine death and more had pregnancy terminated by induction of labor . the gestational age at delivery declined . 
minor congenital malformations in infants of insulin-dependent diabetic women : association with poor glycemic control . a prospective study of 171 insulin-dependent diabetic pregnant women was undertaken to establish the relationship of glycemic control with minor congenital malformations . each live-born infant was assessed systematically by two independent examiners using a standardized checklist . there were 32 infants with minor congenital malformations ( 18.7 % ) . there were significant differences in mean glycohemoglobin a1 between the group with minor congenital malformations and the group without congenital malformations at 12 , 16 , and 20 weeks , but not at 8 or 24 weeks . logistic regression analysis showed that maternal age , race , gravidity , white class , duration of diabetes , maternal vasculopathy , and cigarette smoking were not significant variables correlated with minor congenital malformations . because glycohemoglobin levels from 12-20 weeks are believed to reflect glycemic control from approximately 6-20 weeks , we conclude that poor glycemic control during late embryogenesis and early fetal development is associated with an increased risk of minor congenital malformations . we speculate that improvement of glycemic control during this period should decrease the risk of minor congenital malformations . 
" macrosomic " twinning : a study of growth-promoted twins . we evaluated 56 twin pregnancies representing the tenth decile of the mean twin birth weight distribution to investigate whether larger twins face the same increased perinatal risk as do macrosomic singletons . compared with pregnancies in the ninth decile , no significant difference was found between the means of maternal age , parity , and gestational age ; between the rates of presentation combinations and cesareans ; or between the neonatal sex ratios . however , the incidence of growth-discordant pairs was significantly higher in the heavier group ( p = .034 ) . compared with the general twin population , the tenth-decile group contained significantly fewer primiparas ( p = .0023 ) . maternal obesity and diabetes were infrequent and could not explain the increased birth weight . the neonatal outcome was excellent . although the comparison revealed insignificant differences , it is possible that the combination of higher parity , malpresentation rate , and male-to-female ratio may be operative in the genesis of large twins . 
increased cell adherence of group b streptococci from preterm infants with neonatal sepsis . most women with group b streptococcus cervical colonization have uncomplicated pregnancies , but about 1 % experience preterm premature rupture of membranes ( prom ) followed by neonatal group b streptococcal sepsis . in such cases , streptococcal adherence to and penetration of the membranes may be an important step in the pathogenesis . in the present study , chorionic epithelial cells were incubated with group b streptococci isolated from either children developing sepsis after preterm prom ( complicated pregnancies ) or from uncomplicated pregnancies . incubation periods varied . the numbers of adherent bacteria per chorionic epithelial cell were counted by microscopic examination . after 70 minutes ' incubation , the number of adherent group b streptococci in complicated pregnancies was 38 , compared with 14 in uncomplicated pregnancies ( p less than .001 ) . this difference in vitro might reflect the virulence of group b streptococci . 
a rapid method for detection of group b streptococcal colonization : testing at the bedside . vertical transmission of group b streptococci , the most frequent cause of early neonatal sepsis , can be interrupted by intrapartum antibiotics . however , rapid methods for detecting colonized women must be developed to limit the administration of antibiotics to those who are at risk of delivering an infected infant . the accuracy of a colorimetric test using starch serum medium on vaginal and rectal specimens from women with preterm labor or prolonged rupture of membranes was evaluated . the test was interpreted by labor and delivery room nurses without special microbiologic training . starch serum medium results were compared with those obtained from routine cultures . thirteen of 29 positive vaginal cultures ( 45 % ) and eight of 18 positive rectal swabs ( 44 % ) were identified by nurses using the rapid method . this was significantly different ( p less than .001 ) from sensitivities of 93 and 95 % , respectively , for the same vaginal and rectal specimens interpreted by a bacteriology technologist . the specificity for the test from both sites was 95 % for the nurses . the sensitivity was 53 and 36 % for vaginal and rectal swabs , respectively , for a subgroup of mothers whose infants were assessed as clinically septic . the low sensitivity of starch serum medium as interpreted by nurses in the labor suite is inadequate to allow the test to replace cultures in identifying women colonized with group b streptococci . efforts to increase the sensitivity should be directed toward improving nursing staff interpretation rather than improving the medium itself . 
monozygotic twins discordant for partial trisomy 1 . a 25-year-old primigravida delivered monozygotic twins discordant for multiple anomalies and partial trisomy 1 mosaicism . the phenotype of partial trisomy 1 includes craniofacial , central nervous system , and ocular anomalies . the most likely explanation for these findings is that the translocation occurred after twinning occurred . this observation emphasizes that monozygotic twins are not necessarily genetically identical . they are identical at conception , but subsequent mutation and rearrangement of the genome may cause substantial phenotypic differences . 
trap sequence -- successful outcome with indomethacin treatment . a case of twin reversed arterial perfusion ( trap ) sequence ( acardiac twin ) complicated by hydramnios was managed by maternal administration of indomethacin . successful outcome was achieved after 8.5 weeks of therapy with delivery of a normal live-born infant at 34 weeks . 
prenatal findings in brachmann-de lange syndrome . brachmann-de lange syndrome is a congenital disorder of uncertain cause characterized by severe mental retardation , small stature , microbrachycephaly , hirsutism , limb deformities , and characteristic facies . although more than 300 neonatal cases have been reported , a lack of specific fetal markers has precluded successful antepartum diagnosis . we describe a case of brachmann-de lange syndrome identified at 15 weeks ' gestation by a low maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein ( msafp ) value . sonography revealed a fetus with a posterior nuchal cystic hygroma and early-onset symmetrical intrauterine growth retardation ( iugr ) . the fetal karyotype was 46 , xx , but the infant fulfilled the phenotypic criteria of the brachmann-de lange syndrome at delivery . the triad of an abnormally low msafp value , early-onset symmetrical iugr , and characteristic ultrasound findings during the second trimester of pregnancy may define adequate criteria for prenatal diagnosis of brachmann-de lange syndrome . 
fetomaternal bleeding as a cause of recurrent fetal morbidity and mortality . a woman had fetomaternal bleeding of unknown cause during at least three of five pregnancies . each event was associated with significant fetal morbidity or mortality . although fetomaternal bleeding has been reported as a cause of unexplained fetal death , its occurrence in subsequent pregnancies has not been described previously . 
ongoing fetomaternal hemorrhage treated by serial fetal intravascular transfusions . nonimmune hydrops secondary to atraumatic , massive fetomaternal hemorrhage was diagnosed at 33.5 weeks ' gestation by a maternal kleihauer-betke stain , confirmed by funipuncture . the initial fetal hematocrit was 6.5 % . kleihauer-betke testing revealed a fetomaternal hemorrhage of approximately 230 ml . fetal karyotype , total immunoglobulin m , and liver function tests were normal . maternal parvovirus serology was negative . treatment with two fetal intravascular transfusions provided only transient improvement because the fetomaternal hemorrhage proved to be unrelenting . 
the modified superior based pharyngeal flap . part i. surgical technique . the superior based pharyngeal flap operation for the correction of velopharyngeal incompetence is perhaps the most commonly employed operation used today in a majority of cleft palate centers . however , inconsistent results with this operation are commonplace . this is believed by most to be due to poor control of the lateral portals . herein is a report of our approach to improve lateral portal control . 
the modified superior based pharyngeal flap technique . part ii . an anatomic study . there is little in the literature on the topographic and/or applied surgical anatomy related to superior based pharyngeal flap surgery . herein we report on the applied surgical anatomy of pharyngeal flap surgery , especially as it applies to critical anatomic relationships to vessels , muscles , and nerves . 
the modified superior based pharyngeal flap . part iii . a retrospective study . a retrospective study of 31 patients who had diagnosed velopharyngeal incompetence and were surgically managed with the modified superior based pharyngeal flap was completed . the following were analyzed : age at time of operation , gender , physical status , diagnostic protocol , length of operation ( length of total surgery ) and length of superior based pharyngeal flap , length of postoperative hospital stay , length of total hospital stay , length of follow-up , speech results , complications , patient care , and medication . the result showed that the optimal timing for correction of velopharyngeal incompetence was between 3 and 6 years of age . the mean length of total hospital stay was 2.7 days , postoperative complications were minimal , and speech results were generally good . 
a dentofacial deformity associated with incontinentia pigmenti : report of a case . a case of ip in a 16-year-old girl has been presented . this patient manifested classic ectodermal and mesodermal anomalies . we present this case to illustrate a rare etiologic factor in the development of dentofacial deformities that can be treated in the conventional manner . 
initial evaluation of heart murmurs : are laboratory tests necessary ? heart murmurs , most of them innocent , are the most common reason for referrals to a pediatric cardiologist . in the evaluation of murmurs , the electrocardiogram and echocardiogram are often included . the purpose of this study was to determine the utility of these examinations in the initial assessment of heart murmurs in children and adolescents . in a prospective series of 161 patients , the clinical diagnosis of heart murmurs by a pediatric cardiologist was compared with that obtained after electrocardiogram and echocardiogram ( two-dimensional , m-mode , doppler , and color-doppler ) . on the basis of the clinical diagnosis the patients were classified as having " innocent murmur , " " pathologic murmur , " or " possible pathologic murmur . " a total of 161 patients ( 51 % males ) , aged 1 month to 17 years ( median 3.2 years ) , were studied . after electrocardiogram , no diagnosis was changed . after echocardiogram , the clinical diagnosis of innocent murmur in 109 patients changed in 2 to pathologic ( small ventricular septal defect 1 , small atrial septal defect 1 ) ; pathologic murmur in 46 changed to innocent in 3 and possible pathologic in 2 ; and possible pathologic in 6 changed to innocent in 3 and to pathologic in 2 . the clinical examination by an experienced pediatric cardiologist is an accurate means of assessing newly referred patients with murmurs . the clinical examination had a sensitivity of 96 % , specificity of 95 % , positive predictive value of 88 % , and negative predictive value of 98 % . the electrocardiogram , unlikely to disclose any unsuspected heart disease , may assist in reaching the lesion-specific diagnosis when there is underlying pathology . echocardiography , although diagnostic when heart disease is suspected , is unnecessary in pediatric patients with clinically diagnosed innocent heart murmurs . 
open lung biopsy in the critically ill newborn . experience with 17 open lung biopsies in critically ill premature neonates was reviewed . despite their small size , prematurity , and near maximal ventilator requirements , the infants suffered no significant complications . in three cases , an infectious agent was identified . in one case end-stage lung fibrosis associated with persistent ( greater than 3 months ) , severe respiratory failure prompted termination of support . in the remainder of the cases , definitively ruling out infection allowed the confident trial of a course of steroids in an attempt to treat bronchopulmonary dysplasia . unlike older patients , the definitive diagnosis of no infection in the premature neonate is just as informative as the diagnosis of an infection . used judiciously , open lung biopsy can be performed in the premature infant with acceptable morbidity and mortality . 
single - versus multiple-dose surfactant replacement therapy in neonates of 30 to 36 weeks ' gestation with respiratory distress syndrome . to assess the efficacy of a multiple-dose protocol of surfactant replacement therapy in neonates of 30 to 36 weeks ' gestation , 75 neonates were randomly assigned to control , single-dose surfactant , or multiple-dose surfactant groups . neonates at less than 6 hours of age with a diagnosis of respiratory distress syndrome were eligible . subjects were randomly assigned to receive either 100 mg/kg of bovine surfactant or air placebo . neonates in the multiple-dose group were eligible to receive up to three additional doses as indicated . neonates in both surfactant groups showed a positive response to treatment , with marked improvement in oxygenation by 10 minutes postinstillation ( p less than .0001 ) . both surfactant groups had better oxygenation than control subjects at lower ventilatory parameters over the first 24 hours . a deterioration in oxygenation and ventilatory requirements was seen in both treatment groups starting 6 to 12 hours after the first dose . the deterioration in oxygenation could be minimized by the use of multiple doses ; however , extra doses had no effect on diminishing ventilatory requirements or time to extubation . it is concluded that surfactant therapy at less than 6 hours of age is effective in acutely reducing oxygen and ventilatory requirements in neonates of 30 to 36 weeks ' gestation with respiratory distress syndrome . it appears that multiple doses of surfactant have a greater effect on sustaining improvements in oxygenation than on ventilatory requirements . further study is required to determine optimal dosage and retreatment strategy . 
geometrical planning for the correction of orbital hypertelorism . orbital hypertelorism may be associated with a variety of deformities affecting several elements of the craniofacial skeleton . shortness of the central portion of the face represented by a wide , short nose and anterior open bite is frequently combined with the exaggerated interorbital distance . with the mobilization of the two halves of the face it is possible to approximate the orbits , simultaneously elongating the center of the face and normalizing the maxillary alveolar ridge . a technique is described to plan the operation geometrically in order to predict accurately the skeletal correction , the change of the inclination of the eye slant , and the modification of the axis of the teeth . 
the cloacal malformation : radiologic findings and imaging recommendations . the imaging studies and records of 65 patients with the cloacal malformation seen from 1969 to 1989 were reviewed . the malformations were described according to cloacal configuration ( urethral , vaginal ) , type of urinary-cloacal communication ( urethral , vesical ) , and level of rectal communication ( vaginal , cloacal , vesical , other ) . lower urinary tract abnormalities were frequent ( reflux , ureteral ectopia , bladder diverticula , bladder duplication , urachal remnants , urethral duplication ) , as were genital abnormalities ( uterine duplication , vaginal duplication , uterine atresia , vaginal atresia ) , abnormalities of the bony pelvis ( partial sacral agenesis , pubic diastasis ) , and renal abnormalities ( agenesis , obstruction , horseshoe kidney ) . contrast material studies of the cloaca and the distal limb of the colostomy with fluoroscopy in various projections were essential for diagnosis . voiding cystourethrography was important for detecting vesicoureteric reflux . sonography was of limited value for evaluation of the malformation but was valuable for imaging the kidneys . mr imaging revealed that spinal cord abnormalities can not be predicted based on the appearance of the lumbosacral spine and are more common than previously thought . 
neonatal screening and staggered early treatment for congenital dislocation or dysplasia of the hip . in 14 264 consecutive newborn babies the results of screening and early treatment for congenital dislocation and/or dysplasia of the hip ( cdh ) were evaluated in a prospective follow-up study . barlow 's test was done and the family history was recorded . babies who were positive ( n = 140 ) were immediately given abduction treatment . if the screening result was doubtful ( 133 ) or if the test was negative but the family history positive ( 685 ) the child was radiographed at 5 months and abduction treatment was started if any form of cdh was seen . among barlow-negative children with no family history ( 13,306 ) , two reference groups were selected -- at age 5 months ( 596 ) and at age 2 years ( 4365 ) . dislocation was missed at screening in 0.02 % . dysplasia was seen at 5 months in 15 % of barlow-negative children with a positive family history and in 2-3 % of the reference group children . crude estimates of the lower limits of validity indices for the screening test showed that the test is efficient in the identification of dislocation but probably has no value for dysplasia . of the babies in whom treatment was started immediately 17 % had relapse dysplasia after withdrawal of therapy , 3 % had avascular necrosis , and 78 % were normal at 2 years . when treatment was started at 5 months we found no relapse dysplasia , only 1 % avascular necrosis , and 53-63 % success at 2 years . in children with dislocatable hips we propose a wait-and-see treatment strategy , with early ultrasonography or radiography at 5 months . 
controlled trial of immediate splinting versus ultrasonographic surveillance in congenitally dislocatable hips . 79 infants with congenitally dislocatable hips diagnosed clinically soon after birth were examined sonographically and randomised in a controlled trial to immediate splinting ( n = 41 ) or sonographic surveillance for 2 weeks ( 38 ) . infants from this second group were splinted at age 2 weeks if instability persisted ( 11 of 38 ) or if sonographic abnormality had shown no improvement ( 4 of 38 ) . sonographic findings or clinical outcome did not differ between the two groups at birth or at 6 and 12 months ' follow-up . we conclude that dislocatable hips may be safely watched for 2 weeks after birth to allow spontaneous resolution , but that this approach requires considerable resources and attention to detail . our experience confirms the importance of the dynamic sonographic scan . the low specificity ( 70 % ) of sonographic examination in the first week of life makes it an unsatisfactory primary method of screening at birth , but it is a most useful adjunct to the clinical screening and management of congenital dislocation of the hip . 
third-trimester fetal death in triplet pregnancies . during the last decade , 89 sets of triplets were born in denmark with a gestational age of more than 25 completed weeks . fifteen pregnancies ( 16.9 % ) were complicated by fetal death in the third trimester , with a total of 17 intrauterine deaths . six neonatal deaths occurred , leaving 22 survivors among these 15 patients . four triplet gestations were diagnosed as twins until delivery . eight women conceived spontaneously , two gestations followed assisted fertilization and embryo transfer , and five women had had various forms of ovulation stimulation . the mean maternal age was 27.8 years ( range 17-38 ) . seven women were parous and eight wer nulliparous . maternal complications included hydramnios ( three ) , preeclampsia/hypertension ( three ) , and anemia ( nine ) . all women delivered preterm . of the 11 gestations diagnosed as triplets , fetal death was diagnosed at 32.2 + / - 2.9 weeks ( mean + / - sd ) and delivery occurred at 32.6 + / - 3.0 weeks . nine of 11 women had cesarean deliveries . continuation of pregnancy after fetal death could be considered in only three subjects . in eight women , obstetric reasons required immediate delivery . fetal death was associated with monochorionic or dichorionic placentation , and growth retardation was a frequent complication before fetal death . anencephaly of one fetus , umbilical cord problems in two , and severe hydrops in two were the only obvious causes of fetal death . fetal death should not be the sole indication for delivery . in cases with severe prematurity and a stable intrauterine situation , frequent assessments of fetal well-being are recommended , with prompt delivery when indicated . 
patient experience in a diabetic program project improves subsequent pregnancy outcome . there has been a notable improvement in the outcome of the pregnancies of insulin-dependent diabetics . this improvement has resulted from intensive health care programs and increased awareness among patients and health providers of the need for specialized prenatal care . we hypothesized that participation in a specialized program providing early glycemic control would benefit the patient 's subsequent pregnancy , despite progression of the diabetic disease process . we prospectively studied 55 insulin-dependent diabetic patients enrolled before 9 weeks ' gestation through two consecutive pregnancies : sequence 1 and sequence 2 . a control group of 55 insulin-dependent diabetic patients , entering the program for the first time , were matched with the sequence 2 pregnancies of the study group by maternal age and year of pregnancy . specific outcomes related to glycemic control in early gestation were significantly improved from sequence 1 to sequence 2 pregnancies : earlier week of entry ( p = .0001 ) , lower glycohemoglobin at 9 weeks ( p = .005 ) and at 14 weeks ( p = .02 ) , and improved fetal outcome ( decreased rate of spontaneous abortions or major malformations ; p less than .01 ) . week of entry and glycohemoglobin at 9 and 14 weeks were also significantly improved compared with the control group . seventy-three percent of the patients entered the program earlier in their sequence 2 pregnancies ( p = .001 ) and had lower glycohemoglobin concentrations at 9 weeks ( p = .005 ) compared with their sequence 1 pregnancies . sixty-five percent of the patients in sequence 2 had advanced diabetic disease ( white class d-rf ) , compared with 46 % in sequence 1 ( p less than .05 ) and 44 % of the controls ( p less than .05 ) . 
split-thickness skin grafting of the myelomeningocele defect : a subset at risk for late ulceration . the appropriate method and timing of the management of the myelomeningocele defect have prompted considerable discussion . use of split-thickness skin grafts acutely has accomplished wound closure with low morbidity and mortality . this study was designed to address the question of long-term suitability of the technique of split-thickness skin grafting of the myelomeningocele patient . the incidence of late and/or severe skin ulceration and the presence of gibbus deformity were correlated with the method of skin closure . long-term follow-up revealed a higher incidence of chronic skin ulceration in the split-thickness skin graft group as compared with the primary closure group . all skin breakdowns appeared in the presence of a gibbus deformity , and gibbus deformity was more prevalent in the split-thickness skin graft group . the incidence of skin ulceration and gibbus deformity was site-dependent . a thoracic or thoracolumbar myelomeningocele repair with split-thickness skin graft was significantly more likely to be complicated by skin problems than the defect in the lumbar , lumbosacral , or sacral region . this relationship was secondary to the frequency of gibbus deformity in the more cephalad defects than defects caudad . a treatment plan is outlined that is based on the primary variable of the location of the myelomeningocele and secondarily by defect size . 
craniofacial anomalies in twins . studies of twins provide insight into the relative contribution of genetic and environmental factors in the causality of structural anomalies . thirty-five affected twin pairs were identified from a group of 1114 patients with congenital craniofacial deformities evaluated from 1972 to 1989 . forty-three of these 70 twins exhibited one or more craniofacial anomalies ; these were analyzed for dysmorphic characteristics , zygosity , concordance , and family history . the anomalies were categorized into two groups : malformations and deformations . the malformations ( n = 36 ) included hemifacial microsomia ( n = 10 ) , cleft lip and palate ( n = 8 ) , cleft palate ( n = 4 ) , rare facial cleft ( n = 2 ) , craniosynostosis ( n = 2 ) , binder syndrome ( n = 2 ) , treacher collins syndrome ( n = 2 ) , craniopagus ( n = 2 ) , charge association ( n = 1 ) , frontonasal dysplasia ( n = 2 ) , and constricted ears ( n = 1 ) . the deformations ( n = 7 ) included plagiocephaly ( n = 5 ) , hemifacial hypoplasia ( n = 1 ) , and micrognathia ( n = 1 ) . twenty-one monozygotic and 14 dizygotic twin pairs were identified . the concordance rate was 33 percent for monozygotic twins and 7 percent for dizygotic twins . 
structural genitourinary defects detected in utero . fetal genitourinary anomalies are detected with increasing frequency due to the large numbers of fetuses that undergo screening ultrasonography ( us ) for nonspecific indications . one hundred seventy-seven patients were evaluated for fetal urinary abnormalities over a 2-year period . fetal hydronephrosis accounted for 154 ( 87 % ) of the cases , with the remaining diagnoses including multicystic dysplastic kidney , autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease , and renal agenesis or hypodysplasia . ureteropelvic junction obstruction was the most common postnatal anatomic abnormality ( 29 % ) , with a large number of cases of prenatally diagnosed hydronephrosis resolving either prenatally ( 33 % ) or postnatally ( 24 % ) . prenatal us findings were retrospectively analyzed with regard to the degree of hydronephrosis at different stages of gestation . data showed that there is a gradual rise in anteroposterior renal pelvic diameter during gestation and that there is a correlation between this diameter and the ultimate renal outcome in regard to surgical repair . this information can provide guidance in making recommendations to parents and physicians . 
valve and great vessel stenosis : assessment with mr jet velocity mapping . for measurement of poststenotic jet velocities with magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging , the authors reduced the echo time ( te ) of the field even-echo rephasing ( feer ) velocity mapping sequence from 14.0 to 3.6 msec , so minimizing the problem of mr signal loss from turbulent fluid . in vitro use of rotating disk and stenotic flow phantoms confirmed that the 3.6-msec te sequence enables accurate measurement of jet velocities of up to 6.0 m/sec ( r = .996 ) . peak jet velocity measurements were made with mr imaging in 36 patients with stenosis of native heart valves ( n = 9 ) , conduits ( n = 19 ) , or fontan connections ( n = 2 ) or with aortic coarctation ( n = 6 ) . peak velocity measurements made with mr imaging agreed well with measurements made with doppler ultrasound ( us ) , which were available in 18 cases ( standard deviation = 0.2 m/sec ) . velocity mapping with fast-echo mr imaging is likely to have considerable importance as a noninvasive means of locating and evaluating stenoses , particularly at sites inaccessible to us , but care must be taken to prevent errors caused by malalignment , signal loss , phase wrap , or partial-volume effects . 
body composition in myelomeningocele . body composition and measures of obesity were evaluated in 59 subjects with myelomeningocele ( mmc ) , aged 0.3-29 y , by anthropometry and measures of body cell mass ( bcm ) and intra - and extracellular water ( icw and ecw ) , derived from total body potassium and deuterium-isotope dilution ; these results were compared with reference data . body composition was normal in preambulatory children with mmc . beyond ages 3-4 y there was significant depletion of bcm and total body water , with maldistribution of water ( increased ecw and decreased icw ) and increased percentage body fat above that expected for age and sex . these findings were more pronounced in females and in those with high lesions , and were less pronounced in those who remained ambulatory . these changes may result in metabolic and nutritional maladaption during stress . the relation of bcm , total body water depletion and increased ecw to decreasing ambulatory activity suggests that early nutritional and mobility programs warrant further study . 
the effect of maternal hyperoxia on behavioral activity in growth-retarded human fetuses . thirteen pregnant women who subsequently were delivered of infants with birth weights less than the 3rd percentile were studied for examination of fetal heart rate and fetal activity patients during maternal administration of oxygen at a concentration of 50 % or room air for 2 hours . none of the fetuses was acidotic at birth . maternal transcutaneous po2 levels increased from 79 + / - 3 mm hg to 158 + / - 10 mm hg for the 2 hours of observation . the results indicated that maternal hyperoxia produced sustained fetal breathing activity that was almost 100 % higher than that in room air ( analysis of variance , p = 0.024 ) . gross fetal body movements , fetal heart rate accelerations , and fetal heart rate variability increased significantly with increasing observation time ( analysis of variance , p less than 0.01 ) , but were not significantly altered by maternal hyperoxia or room air . we conclude that despite significant change in fetal breathing activity , ultrasonographic observation of fetal behavioral activity during maternal hyperoxia could not be used to differentiate severely growth-retarded from normally grown human fetuses . we speculate that altered fetal heart rate and fetal body movement patterns usually associated with intrauterine growth retardation might be related to altered development of the fetal central nervous system and are not reversible during prolonged maternal administration of oxygen . 
correlation of the testicular determinant factor sequence zinc finger y with varying gonadal phenotypes in a series of 13 subjects with gonadal dysgenesis due to y aneuploidy . deoxyribonucleic acid samples from a series of 13 subjects with 45 , x/46 , x , altered y , and varying gonadal phenotypes ( streak-streak , n = 9 ; streak-testis , n = 2 ; testis-testis , n = 2 ) were analyzed for the presence of the candidate testicular determinant factor sequence zinc finger y. the y-specific probes y97 mapped to y centromere , pdp105 a , b mapped to yp and distal yq11 , respectively , hybridized with the deoxyribonucleic acid from all the 13 study subjects . the same deoxyribonucleic acid samples were analyzed for the presence of the zinc finger y sequence . eleven of the 13 subjects were positive for the zinc finger y sequence . four zinc finger y-positive subjects had unilateral ( n = 2 ) or bilateral ( n = 2 ) testicular differentiation . among the nine subjects with bilateral streak gonads , seven showed the presence of this sequence . the lack of testicular differentiation in the presence of quantitatively normal or almost normal zinc finger y bands could not be explained by mosaicism alone . mutations not detectable by analysis with the method of southern with pdp1007 , may occur in the testicular determinant factor gene vitiating testicular development . 
color matching and foveal densitometry in patients and carriers of an x-linked progressive cone dystrophy . we describe a family with an as yet undescribed form of x-linked progressive cone dystrophy in a five-generation pedigree , from which we report here the results of 17 male patients and 31 obligate and 13 possible female carriers . the affected males showed the characteristic picture of cone dystrophy . foveal cone photopigment density was impaired ( judged from anomaloscope settings and foveal densitometry ) , even at an early stage of the disease . the carriers showed no fundus abnormalities , except occasional changes due to myopia . the anomaloscope demonstrated mild pseudoprotanomaly in 27 of 31 obligate carriers and in six of 13 possible carriers . foveal densitometry findings performed in 11 carriers always agreed with the anomaloscope findings . we conclude that the findings of pseudoprotanomaly and abnormal density differences in females of this family were the only ocular abnormalities and thus are indicative of the carrier state . 
euthyroid low thyroxine ( t4 ) and triiodothyronine ( t3 ) states in prematures and sick neonates . this article reviews the ontogenesis of thyroid system function in the human fetus and newborn and characterizes thyroid function in the premature infant . thyroid function disorders associated with neonatal adaptation and illness also are reviewed ; these include transient hypothyroxinemia , transient primary hypothyroidism , and the syndrome of nonthyroidal illness . 
disorders of calcium and phosphorus homeostasis . calcium and phosphorus are , respectively , the fifth and sixth most abundant elements in the body ; both play vital roles in a multitude of physiologic systems . because the great bulk of these elements is found in the skeleton , a large part of the discussion of calcium and phosphorus metabolism focuses on skeletal disorders , the impact of which falls heavily on young children . this article reviews the physiology of calcium and phosphorus , the skeletal and systemic consequences of disorders of vitamin d nutrition and metabolism , and the metabolic bone disease of prematurity . 
combined anterior and posterior fusion for spinal deformity in myelomeningocele . since 1973 , 50 of 54 children have been treated by the author with a combined anterior and posterior fusion . twenty males and 34 females , ranging in age from 1 to 16 years , have been followed for a mean period of 5.5 years . sixteen patients with a kyphosis averaging 113 degrees ( range , 77 to 170 degrees ) had correction of deformity to a mean of 35 degrees . thirty-seven patients with a scoliosis averaging 73 degrees ( range , 20 to 135 degrees ) had correction to an average of 34 degrees ( range , 0 to 75 degrees ) . there were 4 cases of deep wound infection successfully treated with drainage and antibiotics and only one case required implant removal after fusion/maturation . a pseudarthrosis was noted by radiograph in 6 patients , 3 of whom had isolated asymptomatic lumbosacral pseudarthroses . three patients had pseudarthrosis at the thoracolumbar junction . these required repair and were successfully treated by supplemental posterior fusion resulting in an overall pseudarthrosis rate of 5.7 % . anterior fusion of the dysraphic spine allows greater correction of both spinal deformity and pelvic obliquity in addition to contributing significant strength to the fusion mass . segmental spinal instrumentation with sublaminar and pedicular wiring to custom-contoured luque rods provides excellent correction and immediate postoperative stability . 
gastric duplication cyst communicating with the pancreatic duct : a rare cause of recurrent abdominal pain . a 41-year-old woman with recurrent attacks of postprandial abdominal pain was found on endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and subsequent computed tomographic scan to have an enteric duplication within the substance of the pancreas with communication to the pancreatic duct . celiotomy demonstrated a noncontiguous gastric duplication cyst . internal drainage was curative . 
evaluation and management of supraventricular tachycardia in children . emergency physicians may be called on to resuscitate acute complications in pediatric patients with congenital heart disease . supraventricular tachycardia , with or without hemodynamic decompensation , is one of the most serious complications . we present the case of a 22-month-old boy with a history of single ventricle who presented to our institution with a history of syncope and hemodynamically stable supraventricular tachycardia . initial attempts at pharmacologic conversion with propranolol and verapamil failed . the arrhythmia was terminated in response to an iv fluid bolus and dopamine infusion and probably resulted from a combination of anemia , hypovolemia , and impaired contractility . appropriate evaluation and management relating to the cre of acute supraventricular tachycardia in children are discussed . 
omeprazole enhances the efficacy of pancreatin ( pancrease ) in cystic fibrosis . we studied the effect of the addition of omeprazole ( 20 mg once a day ) to treatment with pancreatin ( pancrease , cilag , herentals , belgium ) , two or four capsules three times a day , on fecal fat excretion in a double-blind , crossover fashion in nine patients with cystic fibrosis having persistent steatorrhea while taking pancrease , two capsules three times a day ( mean fecal fat excretion , 22.3 % ; range , 12 % to 44 % ) . neither doubling of the dose of pancrease nor addition of omeprazole to the lower dose of pancrease significantly reduced fecal fat excretion ( mean , 19.6 % [ range , 10 % to 34 % ] ; mean , 16.4 % [ range , 6 % to 32 % ] , respectively ) . however , addition of omeprazole to the higher dose of pancrease ( four capsules three times a day ) significantly reduced fecal fat excretion when compared with the two doses of pancrease alone ( mean , 10.7 % ; range , 4 % to 25 % ; p less than 0.01 ) . we conclude that adjunct therapy with omeprazole reduces fecal fat excretion in cystic fibrosis provided that a high dose of pancrease is supplied . 
impact of maternal hiv infection on obstetrical and early neonatal outcome . in a case-control study of 177 hiv-seropositive and 326 seronegative women and their newborns in nairobi , kenya , maternal hiv infection at term was independently associated with travel to other african countries [ odds ratio ( or ) 4.9 , p less than 0.0001 ] , history of a blood transfusion since 1980 ( or 3.5 , p = 0.01 ) , history of more than one sexual partner in the previous 5 years ( or 1.8 , p = 0.02 ) and unmarried status ( or 1.8 , p = 0.02 ) . neonates of hiv-positive and hiv-negative women differed little with respect to occurrence of congenital malformations , stillbirths , in-hospital mortality , sex , apgar score , or gestational age . however , the mean birth weight of singleton neonates of hiv-positive women was significantly lower than that of controls ( 3090 versus 3220 g , p = 0.005 ) , and birth weight was less than 2500 g in 9 % of cases and 3 % of controls ( or 3.0 , p = 0.007 ) . among neonates of hiv-seropositive women , birth weight was less than 2500 g in 17 % if mothers were symptomatic and 6 % if mothers were asymptomatic ( or 3.4 , p = 0.08 ) . 
ultrasound in the diagnosis of congenital dysplasia and dislocation of the hip joints in children older than two years . to evaluate the use of ultrasound in the diagnosis to congenital dysplasia and dislocation of the hip ( cdh ) in children older than two years of age , 64 patients with normal hip joints and 47 patients with present or previous cdh were examined . lateral and anterior ultrasound scanning was employed , and the coverage of the femoral head by the acetabular roof was assessed . the ultrasound measurements were compared with standard roentgenography , and a good accordance between the methods was found . a lateral projection of the femoral head in relation to the bony acetabular rim of more than 8 mm in children younger than ten years of age indicated subluxation and more than 15 mm at age two to four years indicated dislocation . reliable images were obtained by ultrasound at any age between two and 18 years . ultrasound is recommended as the primary imaging technique in the evaluation of hip joints , even in older children , and ultrasound should replace roentgenography in most of the follow-up examinations of children with previous cdh . 
pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect . selection of patients for systemic-to-pulmonary artery shunt based on echocardiography . from january 1987 to december 1988 , in 22 infants with pavsd , the diagnostic results obtained with echocardiography ( two-dimensional , doppler , and color ) were prospectively compared to the angiocardiographic findings . we classified into group 1 patients with confluent and good-sized pulmonary ( greater than or equal to 3 mm ) arteries , single ductus arteriosus , and normal pulmonary venous connections ( " favorable pattern " ) . the other patients with pavsd were classified into group 2 ( " unfavorable pattern " ) . the intracardiac anatomy , the morphology of the pulmonary arteries , and the pattern of pulmonary blood supply and pulmonary venous connection were correctly identified with echocardiography in all but one patient , who was erroneously considered to be in group 2 . no false-positive of the " favorable pattern " ( group 1 ) was detected . echocardiography is an effective tool in infants with pavsd , in order to discriminate cases with " favorable " and " unfavorable " patterns of pulmonary arteries , pulmonary blood supply , and pulmonary veins . the first group with the " favorable pattern " may be considered for systemic-to-pulmonary shunt surgery without angiocardiography . based on this experience from january to december 1989 , four patients with this " favorable pattern " underwent a successful systemic-to-pulmonary artery shunt with an echocardiographic diagnosis alone . 
minute squamous cell carcinoma arising in the wall of a congenital lung cyst . a case of minute squamous cell carcinoma arising in a congenital lung cyst is reported . two aspects of this case were notable . first , we were able to make the diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma by bronchial lavage at an early stage . second , to our knowledge , this is the first case of probable de novo origin of squamous cell carcinoma in a congenital lung cyst . 
di george anomaly with atrioventricular canal . we report the first case of di george anomaly associated with atrioventricular canal . this combination of anomalies may represent a chance occurrence of two situations happening in the same patient or , alternatively , the result of a single unknown embriogenetic mechanism . 
a denaturated venous homograft as an alternative material for shunts and other reconstructions in congenital cardiac surgery . a human venous homograft " varivas r " , in clinical use for 10 years for vascular access loops and femoropopliteal bypasses , has been used since december 1985 as a material for aortopulmonary shunts and other reconstructive procedures in congenital heart surgery . for this purpose vein segments 5 cm length , varying in diameter from 4 up to 10 mm by steps of 1 mm , were obtained . our experience with varivas is limited to 59 patients . of 47 infants , 18 received a left , and 25 a right sided aortopulmonary shunt , 9 had bilateral aortopulmonary shunts , 2 right ventricle pulmonary conduits , 1 a pulmonary-pulmonary conduit , 3 interrupted aortic arch reconstructions and 4 a central aortopulmonary shunt , 1 with confluence reconstruction , 3 recidives of coarctation a patch repair . among 11 adults 6 received coronary bypass and 6 others vascular reconstructions . in contrast to other artificial graft materials , the vein material offers easy manipulation similar to the daily routine of handling fresh vein material offers easy manipulation similar to the daily routine of handling fresh vein grafts in coronary surgery . the appropriate diameter sizes match better the infants anatomy , without the risk of kinking and/or anastomosis displacement . peroperatively it was possible to confirm patency by electromagnetic flow measurement and the postoperative examinations were done by colour doppler echocardiography . we had to reoperate upon 4 infants because of early thrombosis ; on 1 infant for stenosis of the graft and on another 5 for late thrombosis . in an attempt to extend the indications for " inoperable " pulmonary hypoplasia/atresia we were not able to keep the shunt open in 4 infants . 
anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery . surgical alternatives depending of the age of the patient . four cases of anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery , three of which were operated upon in our centre , are presented . an aortocoronary bypass with reversed autologous saphenous vein was carried out in both of the children ; and in the adult , the anomalous ostium was closed from the interior of the pulmonary artery . after 84 , 72 , and 4 months of evolution , respectively , they were found to be asymptomatic , the mitral insufficiency had disappeared and the venous graft remained patent . in this paper , the clinical form of presentation , diagnostic possibilities and surgical treatment are analysed . 
delayed central nervous system myelination in the sudden infant death syndrome . this study was designed to assess whether development of the central nervous system ( cns ) is delayed in victims of the sudden infant death syndrome ( sids ) . we selected the parameter of myelination because it is a continuously changing and readily accessible marker of cns development in the sids age-range . we assessed myelination blindly in 61 sids and 89 autopsy controls . in 62 sites the degree of myelination was visually graded in myelin-stained histological sections on an ordinal scale of 0-4 using the inferior cerebellar peduncle as an internal standard of degree 3 . cases were stratified by postconceptional age at death and sids and controls were compared with respect to myelin degree at each site . significantly delayed myelination ( p less than 0.05 ) occurred in the sids group in 25 of the 62 sites examined . hypomyelination affected fiber systems in which myelination is initiated before or after birth and which myelinate with different tempos and preferentially affect pyramidal and cerebellar ( somatomotor ) and prefrontal-temporal-limbic ( visceromotor ) systems . hypomyelination was not associated with individual clinicopathologic variables in the sids group . somatic growth and brain weight were significantly greater in sids than controls . therefore , we suggest that sids is associated with a developmental cns disorder . although delayed cns myelination most likely shares a common antecedent with sudden death and is not its cause , the role of somato - and viscero-motor systems in central cardiorespiratory control and arousal warrants further analysis in sids . 
helping a child to understand her own testicular feminisation children do not think as adults do . they would therefore be less worried than adults are about a diagnosis with serious or ominous implications , yet they are commonly left uninformed until someone judges that they are old enough to understand . for most , this means delivery of painful information during the very vulnerable teenage years . a better approach is to unfold the truth stage by stage , matching simple statements to the child 's conceptual growth until the personal implications are finally realised as part of a maturing process . use of this approach for a child with testicular feminisation is described . 
possible platelet contribution to pathogenesis of transient neonatal hyperammonaemia syndrome . the pathogenesis of the transient neonatal hyperammonaemia syndrome is largely unknown . the role of platelet activation was investigated in three preterm infants with this syndrome by non-invasive methods . in all three infants , urinary concentrations of beta-thromboglobulin and 11-dehydrothromboxane b2 levels were much higher during the hyperammonaemia than those in ten control preterm infants . it is possible that transient platelet activation occurs in the portal system of these infants , thereby causing the hyperammonaemia . 
neonatal subependymal giant cell astrocytoma associated with tuberous sclerosis : mri , ct , and ultrasound correlation . we describe a term newborn with tuberous sclerosis who presented with a neonatal brain tumor , diagnosed as a subependymal giant cell astrocytoma . we compare the various imaging modalities used in the diagnosis of this tumor . 
a ten-year review of neonatal sepsis and comparison with the previous fifty-year experience . records have been kept prospectively in our institution since 1928 of all positive blood cultures taken from neonates . using a modification of objective centers for disease control criteria to define sepsis , we reviewed the records of all neonates with positive blood cultures for the years 1979 to 1988 inclusive and found 270 cases of sepsis . the sepsis rate for infants less than or equal to 30 days of age was 2.7 cases/1000 live births , with a mortality rate from sepsis of 15.9 % . there was an increase in sepsis due to commensal species ( cs ) over the period ( p less than 0.007 ) . the number of infants in the nursery who developed sepsis when more than 30 days of age also increased ( p less than 0.002 ) , as did the rate of sepsis from cs in this group ( p less than 0.001 ) . isolation of cs from the blood with fulfillment of the modified centers for disease control criteria was associated with a 13.7 % mortality rate , whereas isolation of cs without fulfillment was associated with a 4 % rate ( p less than 0.01 ) . 
characterization of a splicing mutation in group a xeroderma pigmentosum . the molecular basis of group a xeroderma pigmentosum ( xp ) was investigated by comparison of the nucleotide sequences of multiple clones of the xp group a complementing gene ( xpac ) from a patient with group a xp with that of a normal gene . the clones showed a g ---- c substitution at the 3 ' splice acceptor site of intron 3 , which altered the obligatory ag acceptor dinucleotide to ac . nucleotide sequencing of cdnas amplified by the polymerase chain reaction revealed that this single base substitution abolishes the canonical 3 ' splice site , thus creating two abnormally spliced mrna forms . the larger form is identical with normal mrna except for a dinucleotide deletion at the 5 ' end of exon 4 . this deletion results in a frameshift with premature translation termination in exon 4 . the smaller form has a deletion of the entire exon 3 and the dinucleotide at the 5 ' end of exon 4 . the result of a transfection study provided additional evidence that this single base substitution is the disease-causing mutation . this single base substitution creates a new cleavage site for the restriction nuclease alwni . analysis of alwni restriction fragment length polymorphism showed a high frequency of this mutation in japanese patients with group a xp : 16 of 21 unrelated japanese patients were homozygous and 4 were heterozygous for this mutation . however , 11 caucasians and 2 blacks with group a xp did not have this mutant allele . the polymorphic alwni restriction fragments are concluded to be useful for diagnosis of group a xp in japanese subjects , including prenatal cases and carriers . 
vitamin e supplementation and periventricular hemorrhage in the newborn . in a randomized controlled trial preterm babies received 20 mg vitamin e/kg im soon after birth ( day 0 ) and at 24 and 48 h. the mean + / - sd plasma vitamin e level on day 0 was identical in supplemented and control groups ( 9.98 + / - 4.88 mumol/l ) and rose progressively only in supplemented babies reaching a peak of 69.2 + / - 21.36 mumol/l at 72 h. supplemented babies had a lower incidence of intraventricular hemorrhage ( ivh ) diagnosed by ultrasound ( 9/102 , 8.8 % ) than the control group ( 37/108 , 34.3 % ; 95 % ci for difference in incidence , 15-36 % ) . in a subsequent uncontrolled study using the same vitamin e preparation , a single dose of 20 mg/kg was given soon after birth to preterm babies . the peak mean + / - sd plasma level was 32.97 + / - 13.47 mumol/l at 48 h. the incidence of ivh ( 16/121 , 13.2 % ) was lower than in historical control from the randomized trial ( 95 % ci for difference ; 10.2-31 .8 % ) in spite of the single-dose group having more clinical risk factors for ivh . we conclude that vitamin e protects against ivh in preterm babies . 
surfactant replacement therapy in respiratory distress syndrome . meta-analysis of clinical trials of single-dose surfactant extracts . replacement therapy with surfactant extracts in premature infants with respiratory distress syndrome has been evaluated in several clinical trials . the results of individual trials do not provide conclusive evidence that administration of a single dose of surfactant improves morbidity or mortality . meta-analysis is a statistical method to combine the results of such clinical trials , and combined analysis provides a means to overcome the problem of not being able to detect significant small differences in individual trials due to these small sample sizes . seven clinical trials ( 277 patients treated with nonhuman surfactant extract and 263 controls ) met the criteria for analysis ; five outcome measurements ( mortality , patent ductus arteriosus , pneumothorax , intraventricular hemorrhage , and bronchopulmonary dysplasia ) were selected to estimate the treatment effect . the meta-analysis showed that a single dose of surfactant administered before the first breath or within 15 hours of birth significantly decreased the mortality rate ( 95 % confidence interval = -0.19 to -0.03 ) and the risk of developing pneumothorax ( 95 % confidence interval = -0.28 to 0.14 ) in infants with respiratory distress syndrome . further clinical trials are needed to evaluate other aspects of surfactant replacement therapy in premature infants because inconsistent results were observed among the seven analyzed studies . 
neural arch stenosis and spinal cord injury in thanatophoric dysplasia . bony abnormalities caused by thanatophoric dysplasia affect the base of the skull and the vertebrae as well as the ribs and appendicular long bones . we present our findings in a full-term infant with thanatophoric dysplasia in whom the posterior fossa , the rostral vertebral column , and the neuraxis at and adjoining the craniovertebral junction were studied by dissection , roentgenography , and histologic examination . in this infant , malformations of the vertebral laminae , most prominent in the basiocciput and atlas vertebra , led to compression of the rostral cervical spinal cord , causing gliosis and focal necrosis . stenosis of the foramen magnum and spinal canal may contribute to the ventilatory insufficiency that often causes death in patients with thanatophoric dysplasia . we suggest that the causes of death in patients with thanatophoric dysplasia and other severe forms of osteochondrodysplasia should be sought in neuraxial injury rather than attributed solely to pulmonary hypoplasia . 
differences in expression of cystic fibrosis in blacks and whites . the recent identification of the cystic fibrosis ( cf ) gene confirms that genetic heterogeneity occurs in cf. a three-base-pair deletion in exon 10 resulting in a loss of the phenylalanine residue at amino acid position 508 of the gene product , termed the cf conductance regulator protein , accounts for 70 % of cases of cf in white subjects . however , this gene defect occurs in only 37 % of affected blacks . analysis of cf genes from american blacks has revealed a number of mutations , most of which are unique to that population . we therefore searched for potential differences in expression of cf between 24 black and 48 white patients with cf matched for birth date and gender . black patients more frequently presented with only respiratory symptoms ( 38 % vs 10 % ) . black patients had fewer hospitalizations for pulmonary exacerbations ( 2 vs 6.9 ) , a better mean forced vital capacity ( 77 % vs 62 % of predicted ) , and higher chest roentgenogram scores ( 18.2 vs 14.4 ) than white patients . complication rates were similar except for a higher incidence of hyponatremic dehydration ( 21 % vs 2 % ) and peptic ulcer disease ( 13 % vs 0 % ) in blacks . survival time appeared to be longer in blacks , but the difference was not statistically significant . we conclude that phenotypic differences exist between black and white patients with cf , which may be due to the genetic heterogeneity between these two populations . 
mothers ' postcounseling beliefs about the causes of their children 's genetic disorders . mothers ' postcounseling beliefs about the causes of their children 's genetic disorders were investigated by means of a q-sort consisting of 54 statements of possible beliefs that were sorted into nine groups of six items each on the basis of congruence with the subject 's beliefs . the subjects were well educated , knowledgeable about the genetics of their child 's disorder , and indicated a high level of belief in genetic causes . differences in beliefs were associated with differences in genetic etiology , indicating that beliefs were affected by the specific information provided in genetic counseling . factor analysis identified a cluster of q-sort items characterized by a highly personal relationship to the cause of the disorder ( e.g. , personal attributes , being selected and blessed , and god 's actions ) . subjects who rated these items low had a belief pattern , designated impersonal , that was consistent with a scientific worldview and that indicated psychological distancing from the cause of the child 's disorder . subjects who rated these items high , the personal belief pattern , had a mixture of scientific and nonscientific beliefs that indicated a sense of personal involvement in the cause of the child 's disorder . subjects with the two belief patterns were equally knowledgeable about the genetics of the disorder . thus , the personal belief pattern did not appear to interfere with acceptance or understanding of the information provided in genetic counseling . 
chromosome 15 uniparental disomy is not frequent in angelman syndrome . genetic imprinting has been implicated in the etiology of two clinically distinct but cytogenetically indistinguishable disorders -- angelman syndrome ( as ) and prader-willi syndrome ( pws ) . this hypothesis is derived from two lines of evidence . first , while the molecular extents of de novo cytogenetic deletions of chromosome 15q11q13 in as and pws patients are the same , the deletions originate from different parental chromosomes . in as , the deletion occurs in the maternally inherited chromosome 15 , while in pws the deletion is found in the paternally inherited chromosome 15 . the second line of evidence comes from the deletion of an abnormal parental contribution of 15q11q13 in pws patients without a cytogenetic and molecular deletion . these patients have two maternal copies and no paternal copy of 15q11q13 ( maternal uniparental disomy ) instead of one copy from each parent . by qualitative hybridization with chromosome 15q11q13 specific dna markers , we have now examined dna samples from 10 as patients ( at least seven of which are familial cases ) with no cytogenetic or molecular deletion of chromosome 15q11q13 . inheritance of one maternal copy and one paternal copy of 15q11q13 was observed in each family , suggesting that paternal uniparental disomy of 15q11q13 is not responsible for expression of the as phenotype in these patients . 
a 3-bp deletion in the rhodopsin gene in a family with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa . autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa ( adrp ) has recently been linked to locus d3s47 ( probe c17 ) , with no recombination , in a single large irish family . other adrp pedigrees have shown linkage at zero recombination , linkage with recombination , and no linkage , demonstrating genetic heterogeneity . the gene encoding rhodopsin , the rod photoreceptor pigment , is closely linked to locus d3s47 on chromosome 3q . a point mutation changing a conserved proline to histidine in the 23d codon of the gene has been demonstrated in affected members of one adrp family and in 17 of 148 unrelated adrp patients . we have sequenced the rhodopsin gene in a c17-linked adrp family and have identified in the 4th exon and in-frame 3-bp deletion which deletes one of the two isoleucine monomers at codons 255 and 256 . this mutation was not found in 30 other unrelated adrp families . the deletion has arisen in the sequence tcatcatcat , deleting one of a run of three x 3-bp repeats . the mechanism by which this occurred may be similar to that which creates length variation in so-called mini - and microsatellites . thus adrp is an extremely heterogeneous disorder which can result from a range of defects in rhodopsin and which can have a locus or loci elsewhere in the genome . 
waardenburg syndrome ( ws ) : the analysis of a single family with a ws1 mutation showing linkage to rflp markers on human chromosome 2q . waardenburg syndrome type i ( ws1 ; mim 19350 ) is caused by a pleiotropic , autosomal dominant mutation with variable penetrance and expressivity . of individuals with this mutation , 20 % -25 % are hearing impaired . a multilocus linkage analysis of rflp data from a single ws1 family with 11 affected individuals indicates that the ws1 mutation in this family is linked to the following four marker loci located on the long arm of chromosome 2 : alpp ( alkaline phosphatase , placental ) , fn1 ( fibronectin 1 ) , d2s3 ( a unique-copy dna segment ) , and col6a3 ( collagen vi , alpha 3 ) . for the rflp marker loci , a multilocus linkage analysis using mlink produced a peak lod ( z ) of 3.23 for the following linkage relationships and recombination fractions ( theta i ) : ( alpp ---- .000 ---- fn1 ) ---- .122 ---- d2s3 ---- .267 ---- co l6a3 . a similar analysis produced a z of 6.67 for the following linkage relationships and theta i values among the markers and ws1 : ( fn1 ---- .000 ---- ws1 ---- .000 ---- alpp ) ---- .123 ---- d2s 3 ---- .246 ---- col6a3 . the data confirm the conclusion of foy et al . that at least some ws1 mutations map to chromosome 2q . 
17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency masquerading as primary hyperaldosteronism . a unique case of 17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency with steroid-responsive primary hyperaldosteronism is reported . initially the patient was misdiagnosed as testicular feminization for 16 years and was thought to have typical primary hyperaldosteronism for 5 years . however , careful detailed endocrine studies showed markedly elevated progesterone , deoxycorticosterone , and 18-hydroxycorticosterone values with low levels of 17-hydroxyprogesterone , 11-deoxycortisol , testosterone , and dhea-sulfate . in contrast to the suppressed aldosterone levels that are found in 17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency , this patient 's aldosterone levels were inappropriately elevated before and after acth stimulation . use of glucocorticoid replacement resolved the patient 's symptoms and completely corrected the hypokalemia and hypertension . in summary , recognition of 17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency with steroid-responsive primary hyperaldosteronism is important because hypertension , hypokalemia , and symptoms respond to steroid replacement . 
ocular clinicopathologic study of gyrate atrophy . we performed a histopathologic study of whole globes obtained post mortem from a patient with well-documented , vitamin b6-responsive gyrate atrophy . the retina in the posterior pole had focal areas of photoreceptor atrophy with adjacent retinal pigment epithelial hyperplasia . an abrupt transition from the near normal retina to a zone of near total atrophy of the retina , retinal pigment epithelium , and choroid was present in the fundus midperiphery . electron microscopic examination disclosed abnormalities of the mitochondria of the corneal endothelium and the non-pigmented ciliary epithelium . similar , but less severe , mitochondrial abnormalities were present in the photoreceptors . 
congenital tracheal stenosis with unilateral pulmonary agenesis . cogenital tracheal stenosis with unilateral pulmonary agenesis is a rate and frequent fetal combination . in an 8-year period , 5 infants ( ages 2 to 6 months ) with these anomalies were treated . the presenting signs and symptoms consisted of wheezing , stridor , and tachypnea and included frank respiratory failure requiring emergency therapy in several patients . the operative repair consisted of segmental resection and anastomosis in one patient , and rib-cartilage tracheoplasty in the other four . two infants died , one of cerebral hypoxia , and the other of aortotracheal fistula . long-term follow-up in the three survivors is satisfactory . 
arterial switch procedure in an adult . the arterial switch procedure has been shown to offer both anatomic and physiologic correction in infants and children with transposition of the great arteries and ventricular septal defect . we believe that adults may also benefit in some circumstances , as evidenced by the case of a 22-year-old man who underwent successful operation after having initially undergone pulmonary artery banding for transposition with ventricular septal defect in 1967 when he was 5 months of age . 
staged repair of pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect and major systemic to pulmonary artery collaterals fifty-eight consecutive patients with pulmonary atresia , ventricular septal defect , hypoplastic pulmonary arteries with arborization defects , and major aortopulmonary collaterals were entered into a program for staged surgical repair between january 1979 and july 1989 . prerepair preparatory procedures were designed to ( 1 ) encourage native pulmonary artery growth by increasing blood flow and ( 2 ) unifocalize pulmonary blood supply by transplanting or ligating major collaterals . a total of 121 staging procedures were performed with an overall mortality of 10.3 % . one hundred thirty-four major collaterals were either ligated or transplanted . thirty patients eventually underwent hemodynamic repair with an early mortality of 3.3 % and late mortality of 10.0 % . twenty-six current survivors of repair remain clinically well after a mean follow-up of 3.6 years . ten patients are currently in various stages of preparation . twelve patients ( 20.7 % ) failed to achieve minimum requirements for repair after staging and await further palliation or heart-lung transplantation . the principles of management have evolved over the years and are discussed . 
right pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding . serial assessment of pulmonary artery flow by doppler echocardiography was carried out in 15 infants after pulmonary artery banding . three infants were identified as having branch pulmonary artery obstruction based on diastolic pulmonary artery flow . it is concluded that this flow profile may be specific for branch pulmonary artery obstruction after pulmonary artery banding . 
renal angiomyolipoma : report of 24 cases . a series of 24 patients with renal angiomyolipoma was reviewed . their ages ranged from 10 to 70 years ( average 41 ) . four cases were associated with tuberous sclerosis , 1 with spinal neurilemmoma , 1 with transitional cell carcinoma and another with renal tuberculosis . the presenting symptoms in decreasing frequencies were flank pain , mass , haematuria , fever , syncope and respiratory distress . although it has often been said that angiomyolipomas associated with tuberous sclerosis are small and asymptomatic , all 4 such patients in this study had large symptomatic tumours . before the advent of ct scan and ultrasonography , the pre-operative diagnostic rate for cases unassociated with tuberous sclerosis was 10 % ( 1/10 ) . with the combined use of these 2 modalities , the diagnostic rate increased to 60 % ( 6/10 ) . most patients in this series were treated with nephrectomy . however , equally good outcomes occurred in 2 patients who received partial nephrectomies . pre-operative diagnosis now makes it possible to consider more conservative management . 
yield from total skin examination and effectiveness of skin cancer awareness program . findings in 874 new dermatology patients . the authors reviewed 874 dermatology charts to assess the acceptance rate of total skin examination ( tse ) , incidental skin findings , and patient compliance regarding treatment recommendations . of the 874 new dermatology patients studied , 707 ( 80.9 % ) agreed to tse . important incidental findings were found in 151 ( 21.4 % ) . these included : ( 1 ) biopsy specimen-confirmed malignant tumors ( malignant melanoma , lentigo maligna , and basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma ) in 24 of the 707 patients ( 3.4 % ) , ( 2 ) biopsy specimen-confirmed premalignant tumors ( actinic keratosis with dysplasia , bowenoid actinic keratosis , bowenoid papulosis , and lentigo with dysplasia , in five ( 0.7 % ) , ( 3 ) clinically diagnosed premalignant actinic keratosis in 64 ( 9.1 % ) , ( 4 ) biopsy specimen-confirmed dysplastic nevi in 17 ( 2.4 % ) , and ( 5 ) congenital nevi in 41 ( 5.8 % ) . only 4.2 % of the patients returned for a yearly tse , and only 6.0 % were found to follow all recommendations for monthly self examination , yearly professional examination , and sun protection . it is concluded that tse for all new patients , and on a yearly basis for all return patients , is valuable in the detection of many skin conditions and allows skin cancer screening to be done , since patients for the most part do not follow recommendations for at-home screening . 
pregnancy outcome in hematologic malignancies . by means of a mail questionnaire , information on a series of 56 pregnancies i in 48 women diagnosed with leukemia or lymphoma was collected from ten hospitals . seven patients conceived while receiving treatment for their neoplasms ; in 22 patients , the hematologic disease was diagnosed during pregnancy , and the remaining 27 patients became pregnant after completion of the antineoplastic treatment . when a comparison was made of the evolution of these pregnancies to that of pregnancies in a healthy population , no increase in the incidence of complications was observed : 64 % of the pregnancies went to term , 9 % resulted in spontaneous abortion , and 5 % resulted in premature births . the observed incidence of one major malformation in 56 pregnancies did not differ from the frequency of malformations in the offspring of healthy individuals . there were no fetal losses in six pregnancies in which conception occurred during the first year after chemotherapy . in spite of the inherent limitations derived from the design of this type of study and the type of subject analyzed , the data here support the hypothesis that the cytostatic treatment of hematologic malignancies , if deemed necessary , should not be postponed because of pregnancy . moreover , the authors agree with advice recommending that no antifolic or alkylating agents be used for prolonged periods and that radiotherapy be avoided , especially to those fields involving the pelvic area . 
abnormal fucosylation of ileal mucus in cystic fibrosis : i . a histochemical study using peroxidase labelled lectins . peroxidase conjugated lectins were used to analyse the glycoproteins of small intestinal mucins in normal infants and those with cystic fibrosis to ascertain whether there are any detectable histochemical differences in saccharide composition . a significant decrease in lotus tetragonolobus ( ltg ) binding fucose was shown in normal small intestinal mucin starting around 36 weeks ' gestation with total absence of staining at term and beyond . in contrast , the age matched patients with cystic fibrosis showed persistent and intense ltg binding of fucose . these results provide the first clear histochemical evidence that cystic fibrosis mucin is abnormal and confirm the findings of previous biochemical studies . 
abnormal fucosylation of-ileal mucus in cystic fibrosis : ii . a histochemical study using monoclonal antibodies to fucosyl oligosaccharides . abnormal fucosylation of cystic fibrosis mucin was previously shown using peroxidase conjugated lectins on ileal tissue sections . these abnormally fucosylated glycoproteins were investigated further using monoclonal antibodies to fucosyl oligosaccharides based on type 1 and type 2 blood group precursor chains . the results of this study , using monoclonal antibodies to blood group glycoproteins in cystic fibrosis , were negative , yet abnormal fucosylation had been found using lectin histochemistry . using monoclonal antibodies , lectins , and appropriate enzymes , such as glycosyl hydrolases , it should be possible to delineate further the abnormality found in glycoproteins in cystic fibrosis on appropriately fixed ileal sections , obtained from infants at term presenting with meconium ileus . 
ileal duplication cyst causing massive bleeding in a child . intestinal duplication is a rare congenital anomaly ; nonetheless , it comprises more than half of all alimentary duplication disorders . our case report describes the hemorrhagic sequelae of this entity with surgical and pathologic findings . a review of anatomical classification , embryology , and natural history of duplication cyst follows ; differentiating characteristics of duplication cyst versus meckel 's diverticulum are outlined . intestinal duplication cyst should be considered in the differential diagnosis of gi bleeding , especially in children . 
quelprud 's nodule : a post-auricular cartilaginous nodule . a number of minor variations to the configuration of the external ear are well recognized . this paper brings attention to one entity which is characterized by a small cartilaginous nodule or prominence arising from the posterior surface of the pinna and which we have named quelprud 's nodule . a prospective clinical survey of 208 patients attending an ent clinic revealed that nearly one-third of the population studied possess this nodule . there was an equal sex incidence . the quelprud 's nodule was identified within families in a distribution which suggests an autosomal dominant inheritance with variable expressivity . 
uses and complications of uvulopalatopharyngoplasty . uvulopalatopharygoplasty has become widely performed for chronic snoring and for cases of obstructive sleep apnoea . unfortunately this operation is not without morbidity and complications . we report our results of a prospective series of 50 patients undergoing uvulopalatopharyngoplasty with a minimum follow-up of one year . snoring was abolished in 18 ( 36 per cent ) and substantially reduced in the remainder . obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome , identified in 11 patients pre-operatively , was reduced in severity in all but three . troublesome complications were seen in 18 ( 36 per cent ) patients , namely intermittent velopharyngeal incompetence in five ( 10 per cent ) , pharyngeal dryness in 11 ( 22 per cent ) and loss of taste in five ( 10 per cent ) . one patient had nasopharyngeal stenosis requiring correction . a cautious approach to this operation is required with rigorous case selection . the importance of full assessment and careful follow-up should not be underestimated . 
long-term follow-up in isolated ventricular septal defect considered too small to warrant operation . an isolated ventricular septal defect ( vsd ) was diagnosed in 70 patients ( 39 men and 31 women , mean age 29 years , range 10-64 years ) . surgery was judged unnecessary . the follow-up period was at least 10 years , or until death or 31 december 1988 , comprising a mean duration of 21 ( range 6-29 ) years . the mortality was 11/69 ( one lost to follow-up ) , and was not significantly higher than in a matched ' normal ' group . six deaths were cardiac , four of which could probably be related to the vsd . the follow-up study revealed that : ( 1 ) 14 ( 22 % ) subjects had major , vsd-related complications , and cardiac surgery was indicated in eight patients ; ( 2 ) six ( 10 % ) had minor complications . by the end of 1988 , 24 % of subjects had significant dyspnoea , 22 % had chest pain and 19 % used cardioactive drugs . only 33 % were receiving regular cardiac control in a hospital . thus unoperated adults with a small vsd should be monitored closely , since this condition is far from benign . 
cardiovascular abnormalities in infants prenatally exposed to cocaine . this study utilized a historical cohort to examine the relationship between maternal cocaine use during pregnancy and the occurrence of congenital cardiovascular abnormalities . all neonatal drug screens performed at boston city hospital during an 18-month period were reviewed ( n = 554 ) ; for 214 ( 39 % ) screened high-risk neonates , results of toxicologic screens were positive for cocaine , and 340 ( 61 % ) neonates had no detectable cocaine . we compared the occurrence of cardiovascular malformations and electrocardiographic abnormalities in these two groups . matches were sought between these 554 infants and our pediatric cardiology data base , which consisted of inpatient consultation , outpatient consultation , and electrocardiography . forty-nine patients had drug screens and were also entered into our cardiology data base : 25 had both consultations and electrocardiograms , and 24 had electrocardiograms only . the rate of cardiac anomalies among the cocaine-positive infants was significantly higher ( relative risk = 3.7 ; 95 % confidence interval : ( 1.4 , 9.4 ) ) than the rate of these anomalies among the cocaine-negative comparison group ( 65/100 vs 18/1000 ) ; the rate for cocaine-positive infants was also significantly higher than published rates for general populations of infants . several electrocardiographic abnormalities , high-grade ventricular ectopy , and cardiorespiratory arrests were also noted in our study population . we conclude that cocaine exposure during prenatal life appears to predispose infants to structural cardiovascular malformations , electrocardiographic abnormalities , and , possibly , cardiopulmonary autonomic dysfunction . 
long-term follow-up comparing subclavian flap angioplasty to resection with modified oblique end-to-end anastomosis the definitive surgical procedure for correction of aortic coarctation remains controversial . therefore , we retrospectively reviewed a total of 56 children under 4 years of age with coarctation repair between 1977 and 1986 . thirty-four had the subclavian flap angioplasty technique and 22 had resection with oblique end-to-end anastomosis . the group was further subdivided to include only the 23 infants less than 3 months of age -- eight infants with resection with oblique end-to-end anastomosis ( less than or equal to 3ete ) and 15 infants with subclavian flap angioplasty ( greater than or equal to 3sfa ) . the remaining 33 patients older than 3 months of age were divided into 14 patients with resection and oblique end-to-end anastomosis ( greater than 3ete ) and 19 patients with the subclavian flap angioplasty technique ( greater than 3sfa ) . the overall mortality was not significantly different between techniques . postoperative hypertension was significantly more prevalent with end-to-end anastomosis than with the subclavian flap angioplasty technique ( p less than 0.01 ) . seven patients had recurrent coarctation . the 6-year actuarial freedom from recoarctation was 93 % + / - 6 % in the less than or equal to 3sfa group compared with 53 % + / - 20 % in the less than or equal to 3ete group ( p less than 0.02 ) , but there was no significant difference in those children operated on at a later age regarding the type of coarctation repair . therefore , we recommend subclavian flap angioplasty in patients less than 3 months of age . in those older than 3 months either procedure is safe and the risk of recoarctation is similar . 
neonatal repair of tetralogy of fallot with and without pulmonary atresia . our experience with the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries has confirmed the attainability of excellent results with elective neonatal surgery . up to this time , we have repaired tetralogy of fallot during the neonatal period only when symptoms , either severe persistent cyanosis or cyanotic spells , have been present . this review assesses the results of such nonelective neonatal correction of tetralogy between 1973 and 1988 . twenty-seven neonates with either symptomatic tetralogy of fallot or symptomatic tetralogy of fallot with valvar pulmonary atresia underwent repair . mean age at repair was 8 + / - 8.4 days and mean weight was 3.0 + / - 0.7 kg . unsatisfactory palliative shunts had previously been placed elsewhere in four patients . twenty-five transannular patches and two conduits were used for reconstruction of the right ventricular outflow tract . there were five deaths in the hospital , three of which were due to avoidable technical problems . all deaths occurred in patients with pulmonary artery ( nakata ) index less than 150 mm2/m2 . one premature child weighing 2.3 kg displayed an absent pulmonary valve-like syndrome after repair and died late of respiratory complications caused by aneurysmal branch pulmonary arteries . actuarial survival at 5 years was 74 % . there was a single rapidly declining hazard phase for death , with the hazard approaching zero at 1 1/2 years after repair . actuarial freedom from need for reoperation was 76 % at 5 years . postoperative catheterization of 15 long-term survivors showed right ventricular pressure less than 70 % systemic in 13 cases . all patients are symptomatically well and functioning in sinus rhythm 1 to 15 years after repair ( mean , 5 + / - 4 years ) . this experience with neonates with symptoms suggests that , if mortality is lower in the absence of symptoms , elective repair of tetralogy of fallot could be reasonably undertaken during the first months of life . 
atrioventricular septal defects . analysis of short - and medium-term results . atrioventricular septal defects were repaired in 87 patients from 1981 to 1988 . interventricular communications were present in 73 patients , and major associated anomalies were present in 17 ( tetralogy of fallot in four , double-outlet right ventricle in two , multiple ventricular septal defects in 11 ) . five deaths occurred in the hospital ( 5.7 % ; 70 % confidence limits , 3.2 % to 9.7 % ) . a preoperative new york heart association class v functional condition was the only incremental risk factor ( p = 0.02 ) for death in the hospital . no patient ( 0 % ; 70 % confidence limits , 0 % to 2.15 % ) had complete heart block . actuarial survival rate at 80 months was 81.4 % . the only incremental risk factor ( p = 0.005 ) leading to reoperation was a preoperative valve incompetence . actuarial rate at 80 months for freedom from reoperation was 84.2 % in the overall group of patients after repair of atrioventricular septal defect . we conclude that an improvement in survival and success rates should be found when a policy of earlier repair is followed . 
genetic disease detection and dna amplification using cloned thermostable ligase . polymerase chain reaction , using thermostable dna polymerase , has revolutionized dna diagnostics . another thermostable enzyme , dna ligase , is harnessed in the assay reported here that both amplifies dna and discriminates a single-base substitution . this cloned enzyme specifically links two adjacent oligonucleotides when hybridized at 65 degrees c to a complementary target only when the nucleotides are perfectly base-paired at the junction . oligonucleotide products are exponentially amplified by thermal cycling of the ligation reaction in the presence of a second set of adjacent oligonucleotides , complementary to the first set and the target . a single-base mismatch prevents ligation/amplification and is thus distinguished . this method was exploited to detect 200 target molecules as well as to discriminate between normal beta a - and sickle beta s - globin genotypes from 10-microliters blood samples . 
perinatal transmission of human papillomavirus . human papillomavirus infection is probably the most prevalent sexually transmitted disease in the united states . in adults , it is associated with condylomata acuminata and with neoplastic changes ranging from dysplasia to carcinoma . infected mothers may transmit human papillomavirus during the perinatal period ; affected children face prolonged , difficult treatment for respiratory papillomatosis . prevention of infection remains the best approach , since diagnostic and therapeutic methods are suboptimal . 
hemodynamic effects of ketamine , hypoxia and hyperoxia in children with surgically treated congenital heart disease residing greater than or equal to 1,200 meters above sea level . little data are available on the hemodynamic effects of premedications and anesthetic agents on infants and children . ketamine is the most frequently used anesthetic agent for cardiac catheterization procedures in pediatric patients with congenital heart disease . previous reports both suggest and deny ketamine 's pulmonary vasoreactive effects . since the advent of sophisticated noninvasive equipment , one of the few indications for cardiac catheterization is to obtain accurate pressure data . if ketamine alters pulmonary vascular resistance , it would negate the primary reason for the procedure . because the patient population studied herein resides greater than or equal to 1,200 meters above sea level , concerns about pharmacologic effects on pulmonary vascular resistance are enhanced . simultaneous pulmonary artery and aortic pressures , thermodilution cardiac outputs , and blood gases were measured in room air ( 16 % oxygen ) and with ketamine infusion in 14 patients at cardiac catheterization . reaction to hypoxia identified 3 groups : normal , intermediate and hyperresponders . the normal responders had normal resistance ratios ( 0.11 ) in room air and had little resistance ratio response to hypoxia ( +0.02 ) , hyperoxia ( -0.03 ) or ketamine ( +0.01 ) . the intermediate responders had a slightly higher but normal resistance ratio ( 0.20 ) in room air , and a moderate reaction to hypoxia ( +0.13 ) , hyperoxia ( -0.08 ) and ketamine ( +0.11 ) . the hyperresponders had an elevated resistance ratio ( 0.42 ) in room air and a striking reaction to hypoxia ( +0.65 ) , hyperoxia ( -0.17 ) and ketamine ( +0.49 ) . hypoxia and ketamine have a greater effect on resistance ratio than hypoxia alone in patients with reactive pulmonary vascular beds . ketamine should not be used in children undergoing procedures to establish operability based on pulmonary vascular resistance or pulmonary vascular reactivity . 
antiepileptic medication in pregnancy : late effects on the children 's central nervous system development . in a follow-up study long-term effects of antenatal exposure to two anticonvulsant drugs , phenobarbital and carbamazepine on central nervous system development were evaluated . children aged 6 to 13 years of epileptic mothers who used phenobarbital ( n = 13 ) , carbamazepine ( n = 12 ) , phenobarbital plus carbamazepine ( n = 12 ) , or no medication ( n = 24 ) during pregnancy were studied . none of the mothers had seizures during pregnancy . a control group carefully matched for confounding variables was selected of children of nonepileptic mothers ( n = 61 ) . minor and major congenital anomalies appeared to be more related to mother 's epilepsy than to maternal medication . there were no neurologic differences between the groups . exposure to phenobarbital was associated with smaller head circumference . an accompanying negative effect of phenobarbital on cognitive development was suggested . further research on this intriguing phenomenon seems warranted . 
successful antepartum treatment of listeriosis . a pregnant patient had a flulike illness at 27 weeks . listeria monocytogenes infection was diagnosed by blood cultures . electronic monitoring suggested the fetus was stressed . use of tocolytics inhibited uterine contractions while the mother was treated with intravenous ampicillin . four days later when labor began because of chorioamnionitis , the infant was delivered in good condition . 
double-blind comparison of oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate with oral meperidine , diazepam , and atropine as preanesthetic medication in children with congenital heart disease . the effectiveness of oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate ( otfc ) as preanesthetic medication was compared with oral meperidine , diazepam , and atropine ( mda ) in 40 pediatric patients scheduled to undergo repair of congenital heart defects . in a double-blinded manner , patients received a fentanyl lollipop ( 20-25 micrograms/kg ) and a placebo oral solution ( 0.4 ml/kg ) ( n = 20 ) or a placebo lollipop and an oral solution ( 0.4 ml/kg ) of meperidine ( 1.5 mg/kg ) , diazepam ( 0.2 mg/kg ) , and atropine ( 0.02 mg/kg ) ( n = 20 ) . the patient 's vital signs , systolic and diastolic blood pressures , heart rate , respiratory rate , and oxyhemoglobin saturation ( spo2 ) , as well as activity and apprehension scores were evaluated and recorded at baseline and at 10-min intervals . the patient 's emotional status at the time of parental separation and at induction of anesthesia were also assessed . side effects and onset of action were observed . after otfc , onset of sedation was significantly faster than with the oral solution of meperidine , diazepam , and atropine . in both groups there was no significant change in heart rate . although systolic blood pressure , diastolic blood pressure , and respiratory rate showed statistically significant decreases , these changes were not clinically significant . the child 's emotional status at the time of separation from the parents and during induction was similar in both groups . side effects with otfc were more frequent : nose itching occurred in 65 % , body itching in 10 % , and vomiting in 30 % . two patients ( 10 % ) in the otfc-treated group became hypoxemic ( spo2 less than 90 ) and required supplemental oxygen . in the group receiving oral meperidine , diazepam , and atropine , 10 % had mild facial pruritus and 5 % complained of a dry mouth . 
expression of the genes for insulin-like growth factor-i ( igf-i ) , igf-ii , and igf-binding proteins-1 and -2 in fetal rat under conditions of intrauterine growth retardation caused by maternal fasting . evidence suggests that insulin-like growth factors-i and - ii ( igf-i and ii ) play a role in regulating fetal growth and development . in the fetus , igf-i and - ii are complexed with two specific binding proteins ( igfbp-1 and -2 ) , which are thought to modulate the actions of the igfs in target tissues . we examined regulation of the genes for igf-i , igf-ii , igfbp-1 , and igfbp-2 in fetal rat liver in an experimental model for intrauterine growth retardation caused by maternal fasting on days 17-21 of gestation . the mean weight of fetuses from the fasted dams was 27-32 % lower than the mean weight of fetuses from the fed dams . the concentration of immunoreactive igf-i was decreased by 71 % in serum of fetuses from the fasting dams . the concentration of immunoreactive igf-ii was slightly decreased ( by 12 % ) in serum of fetuses from the fasting dams , whereas the concentration of immunoreactive pro-igf-ii e-domain peptide was decreased by 31 % . the abundance of hepatic igf-i mrna was decreased by 55 % in fetuses from the fasting dams . in contrast , the abundance of igf-ii mrna in fetal liver was not significantly decreased by maternal fasting . maternal fasting caused a 2-fold increase in the abundance of igfbp-1 mrna in fetal liver , whereas it did not change the abundance of igfbp-2 mrna . the induction of igfbp-1 mrna in liver of the growth-retarded fetuses is similar to the induction that occurs in liver of fasting adults , while the lack of regulation of igfbp-2 mrna differs from the strong induction of igfbp-2 mrna that occurs in liver of fasting adults . in summary , these results indicate that maternal fasting causes a decrease in fetal igf-i gene expression , a decrease in fetal serum igf-i , and a slight decrease in fetal serum igf-ii and pro-igf-ii e-domain peptide concentrations . maternal fasting also causes an increase in fetal igfbp-1 gene expression . changes in fetal insulin and glucose may be related to changes in expression of the igf-i and igfbp-1 genes in the growth-retarded fetuses . the decreased expression of igf-i and - ii and increased expression of the igfbp-1 gene may contribute to the fetal growth retardation observed in this model system . 
edwards ' syndrome after the replacement of cryopreserved-thawed embryos . a case of edwards ' syndrome after the replacement of frozen-thawed embryos is reported . the presence of cardiac abnormalities and limb deformities raised the suspicion of chromosomal abnormality . the diagnosis of trisomy 18 was made by cytogenetic analysis of fetal blood from the umbilical vein . the chromosomal nondisjunction might have been spontaneous or because of freezing and thawing . if it occurred as a result of freezing and thawing , it is more likely that this was at the first cleavage division rather than the second meiotic division because the embryos were frozen at the late pronuclear stage . unfortunately , there were no karyotypic markers in the couple 's chromosomes to time the nondisjunction . the wisdom of using donor oocytes in an ovum donation program from patients with long-standing infertility is questioned . 
control of the sperm-oocyte switch in caenorhabditis elegans hermaphrodites by the fem-3 3 ' untranslated region . in the caenorhabditis elegans hermaphrodite germ line , sperm and then oocytes are made from a common pool of germ-cell precursors . the decision to differentiate as a sperm or an oocyte is regulated by the sex-determining gene , fem-3 . expression of fem-3 in the hermaphrodite germ line directs spermatogenesis and must be negatively regulated to allow the switch to oogenesis . in adult hermaphrodites ( which are producing oocytes ) , most fem-3 rna is found in the germ line , consistent with both the requirement for fem-3 in hermaphrodite spermatogenesis and the maternal effects of fem-3 on embryonic sex determination . whereas loss-of-function mutants in fem-3 produce only oocytes , hermaphrodites carrying any of nine fem-3 gain-of-function ( gf ) mutations make none ; instead sperm are produced continuously and in vast excess over wild-type amounts . genetic analyses suggest that fem-3 ( gf ) mutations have escaped a negative control required for the switch to oogenesis . here we report that all nine fem-3 ( gf ) mutants carry sequence alterations in the fem-3 3 ' untranslated region ( 3 ' utr ) . there is no increase in the steady-state level of fem-3 ( gf ) rna over wild-type , but there is an increase in the polyadenylation of fem-3 ( gf ) rna that is coincident with the unregulated fem-3 activity . results of a titration experiment support the hypothesis that a regulatory factor may bind the fem-3 3 ' utr . we speculate that fem-3 rna is regulated through its 3 ' utr by binding a factor that inhibits translation , and discuss the idea that this control may be part of a more general regulation of maternal rnas . 
premature rupture of the membranes and sepsis in preterm neonates . this investigation was designed as a historical cohort study using data abstracted from medical records . five hundred seven preterm neonates ( 26-35 weeks gestation ) born alive from singleton pregnancies complicated by premature rupture of the membranes ( prom ) were selected . each neonate was matched on gestational age , gender , ethnicity , and date of delivery to a neonate without prom . a matched pairs analysis was done using risk ratios ( rr ) to measure strength of the association and risk differences ( rd ) to measure absolute effect . analysis revealed that preterm births complicated by prom were at significantly higher risk of neonatal sepsis ( rr = 3.5 ) and infection ( rr = 2.4 ) . the rds indicated that prom exposure contributed an excess of 5 cases of sepsis per 100 infants ( rd = 0.05 ) . prom was not significantly associated with neonatal mortality , but when prom had existed over 48 hours there was a higher risk of sepsis and infection . birth of a neonate over 1500 grams or 33 weeks gestation was the most important factor in reducing risk of infection in prom deliveries . 
infection in utero : us findings in 19 cases . the results of antenatal sonographic studies of 19 fetuses with congenital infections were retrospectively reviewed by the authors . recognizing the significance of these antenatal sonographic findings is important because in utero infections can have devastating effects on the developing fetus . an infectious viral agent was isolated in laboratory tests at birth in 11 patients , and the effects of a viral agent were proved clinically in eight . antenatal sonography demonstrated abnormalities in 18 fetuses : multiple organ systems were affected in 47 % ; intracranial abnormalities , cardiac abnormalities , and parenchymal calcifications occurred in 42 % , 37 % , and 32 % , respectively ; large placentas were seen in 32 % ; and the volume of amniotic fluid was decreased in 37 % and increased in 37 % . sixty-three percent of fetuses were either aborted or died at birth ; the 37 % that lived were all developmentally impaired . on the basis of these sonographic , laboratory , and clinical findings , the authors conclude that when multiple organ system abnormalities are found at antenatal ultrasound , the presence of an in utero infection should be considered . the parents should be informed that there is a poor prognosis for any fetus demonstrating such abnormalities . 
etiologic , clinical , and pathologic analysis of 31 fatal cases of acute respiratory tract infection in argentinian children under 5 years of age . during a 3-year survey of 805 children with acute lower respiratory tract infection ( alri ) who were admitted to three hospitals in buenos aires , 31 fatal cases were recorded -- a fatality rate of 3.8 % . of the 31 children who died , 77 % were less than 1 year of age , 48 % were boys , 58 % were malnourished , 29 % had previous respiratory disease , and 22 % had previous congenital disease . all children who died had clinical diagnoses of pneumonia ( 71 % ) or bronchiolitis ( 29 % ) . autopsies were performed in 14 of the cases . viral etiology was determined by both cell culture and indirect immunofluorescence ( iif ) assay of either nasopharyngeal aspirates ( npa ) or lung tissue and bacterial etiology was determined by isolation of organisms from blood , lung tissue , and/or pleural fluid . npa was examined for bordetella pertussis by iif . pathogens were identified in 65 % of fatal cases . seven cases were bacterial ; seven cases were viral ; and six cases resulted from mixed infections . lung tissue yielded positive etiologic results in 10 of 13 cases . histopathologic examination performed on specimens from the 14 autopsied children revealed necrotizing bronchiolitis with intranuclear inclusions ( n = 5 ) and multifocal pneumonia ( n = 9 ) . 
usefulness of color-flow doppler in diagnosing and in differentiating supracristal ventricular septal defect from right ventricular outflow tract obstruction . color-flow doppler is used for special localization of cardiac flows . the transeptal jet in supracristal ventricular septal defect ( vsd ) is directed toward the pulmonary valve and is often difficult to distinguish from the right ventricular ( rv ) outflow tract flow . pulsed - and continuous-wave doppler can misread the vsd jet as a stenotic lesion in the rv outflow tract . this study describes the color-flow doppler characteristics of supracristal vsd and determines if color-flow doppler can differentiate supracristal vsd jets from rv outflow tract flow . the study group comprised 28 patients ranging in age from 3 days to 23 years ( mean 6.4 ) , with catheter-diagnosed supracristal vsd in 14 , isolated pulmonary valve stenosis in 10 and rv infundibular obstruction in 4 . the echocardiographic doppler and color-flow doppler data of all patients were reviewed without knowledge of catheterization diagnosis . in all patients with supracristal vsd , color-flow doppler revealed an abnormal transeptal jet directed toward the pulmonary valve that occurred 5 to 10 ms before rv outflow tract flow was identified . vsd and rv outflow tract jet could be differentiated by pulsed - and continuous-wave doppler alone in 10 of 14 patients ( 71 % ) . in 4 patients , differentiation was possible only with color-flow doppler and electrocardiographic gating . associated aortic regurgitation , or a fistula , or both , were detected in 6 patients . pulsed - and continuous-wave doppler with or without color-flow doppler correctly identified the level of obstruction in all patients with rv outflow tract lesions ( 14 of 14 ) . supracristal vsd jet occurs in early systole and is directed toward the pulmonary valve . 
high-grade dysplasia in the columnar-lined esophagus . abnormal columnar lining of the esophagus is a well-recognized premalignant condition . the management of patients with high-grade dysplasia without evidence of carcinoma remains controversial . esophagectomy is proposed by some investigators , whereas others favor follow-up endoscopy and biopsy until microinvasive malignancy is documented . we reviewed our experience with nine patients referred with high-grade dysplasia on endoscopic biopsies without evidence of carcinoma . eight patients had the columnar lining extending orad from the cardia , and one patient had heterotopic columnar epithelium in the cervical esophagus . all were white men ranging in age from 19 to 76 years ( median : 47 years ) . eight patients underwent esophagectomy with colon interposition . a sleeve resection of the cervical esophagus was done in one patient . multifocal carcinoma was found in three patients , all of whom had severe dysplastic changes throughout the columnar lining . the patient with heterotopic columnar epithelium had microinvasive carcinoma . all four patients with carcinoma had negative nodes and are long-term survivors . no carcinoma was found in the resected specimens of the remaining five patients . high-grade dysplasia is an important marker of malignancy in patients with a columnar-lined esophagus . esophagectomy is indicated in suitable candidates since carcinoma was found in 45 % of our patients . 
microbiological studies of the enterocolitis of hirschsprung 's disease . the results of a prospective study of 20 cases of newly diagnosed hirschsprung 's disease ( nine of whom developed enterocolitis ) and 10 normal controls showed no variations in the bacterial flora ( including clostridium difficile ) in the stools of the groups studied . viral studies showed that rotavirus was present in the stools of seven of the nine cases of enterocolitis during the episode . we suggest that hirschsprung 's enterocolitis may have a complex infective aetiology and that rotavirus plays a part . 
psychological characteristics of children with shwachman syndrome . twelve children and young adults with shwachman syndrome were compared with their unaffected siblings and with controls suffering from cystic fibrosis in terms of intellectual ability , motor skills , and behaviour . there were highly significant differences in intelligence quotient between those with shwachman syndrome and the other two groups . four of the index subjects but none of the control subjects were below the normal range . the differences between groups on other tests of cognitive and motor skills were not significant , though those with shwachman syndrome tended to have the lowest scores . there was no evidence that those with shwachman syndrome had more behavioural difficulties than the control subjects . we suggest that the intellectual difficulties of patients with shwachman syndrome may be of neurological rather than social origin and that they may originate before birth . 
autosomal dominant sectoral retinitis pigmentosa . two families with transversion mutation in codon 23 of rhodopsin . a cytosine-to-adenine transversion in codon 23 of rhodopsin , the rod visual pigment gene , was reported recently by dryja et al in 17 of 148 unrelated patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa , but the clinical findings associated with this deletion have not been reported in detail . in screening our patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa for the codon 23 transversion , we found positive results in four affected individuals from two families with sectoral retinitis pigmentosa , while 12 patients with sectoral retinitis pigmentosa from different families had negative results , suggesting that other gene sites or locations may give this same phenotypic change . from our patients ' history of light exposure and the location of degeneration in the retina , we hypothesize that light phototoxicity may be playing an expressive role in this point mutation of the rhodopsin gene . this is the first report in which a type of retinitis pigmentosa has been associated with a specific molecular gene defect , although the actual pathophysiologic mechanism currently is unknown . 
ocular findings in patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa and a rhodopsin gene defect ( pro-23-his ) . ocular findings are presented from 17 unrelated patients with a form of autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa and the same cytosine-to-adenine transversion in codon 23 of the rhodopsin gene corresponding to a substitution of histidine for proline in the 23rd amino acid of rhodopsin ( designated rhodopsin , pro-23-his ) . on average , these patients ( mean age , 37 years ) had significantly better visual acuity and larger electroretinographic amplitudes than 131 unrelated patients ( mean age , 32 years ) with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa without this mutation . however , these 17 patients from separate families , as well as 12 relatives with the mutation from four of these families , showed interfamilial and intrafamilial variability with respect to severity of their ocular disease , suggesting that some factor ( s ) other than this gene defect itself is involved in the expression of their condition . this form of retinitis pigmentosa can now be detected by testing leukocyte dna from peripheral blood . some mechanisms by which this mutation in the rhodopsin gene could lead to rod photoreceptor cell death are suggested . 
anomalous subaortic position of the brachiocephalic vein ( innominate vein ) : an echocardiographic study . in 24 ( 0.98 % ) of 2457 patients with congenital heart disease the brachiocephalic vein was in an anomalous position below the aortic arch . this is a much higher proportion of such cases than reported so far . this high frequency may arise from differences in the study population and the method of diagnosis . this venous anomaly was more common in patients with tetralogy of fallot or ventricular septal defect with pulmonary atresia . patients with the venous anomaly were more likely to have a right aortic arch . the anomalous course of the brachiocephalic vein from the neck to the junction of the superior vena cava was shown by cross sectional echocardiography . in doubtful cases , doppler study usually clarified the anatomical arrangement . 
chromosomal abnormalities in myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia . clonal chromosome abnormalities are found in more than half the patients with hematologic malignancies . karyotype is an independent prognostic factor in these patients . cytogenetic findings correlate significantly with morphologic , immunologic , and clinical features as well as response to treatment , remission duration , and survival . the number of different cytogenetic abnormalities is enormous ; however , many cytogenetic findings frequently occur in a given disease ( e.g. , abnormalities of 5 or 7 in 75 % to 90 % of patients with therapy-related aml ) . some abnormalities are found only in myeloid malignancies , for example , the t ( 8 ; 21 ) ( q22 ; q22 ) and rearrangements of chromosome 16q22 , both of which have a good prognosis . other abnormalities usually are found in both myeloid and lymphoid malignancies , for example , the t ( 4 ; 11 ) ( q21 ; q23 ) and t ( 9 ; 22 ) ( q34 ; q11 ) , both of which have a poor prognosis . the human gene mapping conferences have compiled much cytogenetic data and produced several interesting correlations in myeloid malignancies : rearrangements of 3q21-26 with myeloid proliferations associated with environmental exposure ( similar to abnormalities of 5q , 7q , 12p , and 17q ) , aberrations of 12p , 11q13 and 11q23 with both myeloid and lymphoid disorders , and the lack of myeloid involvement and abnormalities of chromosomes 14 and 18 . in conclusion , cytogenetic analysis of neoplastic cells at diagnosis for patients with mds , aml , and saml is required for appropriate diagnosis and treatment . the use of chromosome abnormalities to separate patients into high - and low-risk groups eventually may allow us to be more effective in selecting curative therapy . 
myeloproliferative disorders . classification and diagnostic features with special emphasis on chronic myelogenous leukemia and agnogenic myeloid metaplasia . leukocytosis , mild anemia , thrombocytosis , and panhyperplasia in the marrow characterize the early stages of most of the cmpd , whereas extramedullary hematopoiesis ( such as in the spleen or liver ) , peripheral cytopenias ( anemia , leukopenia , or thrombocytopenia ) , and myelofibrosis , with or without osteosclerosis , reflect the changes seen in the later stages . transitions among the different cmpd and termination in acute leukemia or marrow failure also are common . cml often is characterized by leukocytosis and the presence of the entire spectrum of granulocytes ( mature and immature ) in the blood and marrow , reduced lap , hypercellularity with prominent granulocytic hyperplasia in the marrow , ph chromosome , and bcr-abl gene rearrangement . typical features of amm include leukoerythroblastosis , teardrop poikilocytosis , anemia , increased or normal lap , prominent megakaryocytic hyperplasia in the marrow , dyshematopoiesis , and hyperplastic or fibrotic/sclerotic marrow . 
increased epidermal growth factor receptors in seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons of patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome . seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons may change in biologic behavior with pregnancy or during treatment with sex steroids . because epidermal growth factor receptor localization may change in hyperproliferative skin diseases , we compared epidermal growth factor receptor immunolocalization in seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from women who were or were not pregnant or taking oral sex steroid hormones . epidermal growth factor receptor was further investigated in growing and quiescent seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from women with and without the dysplastic nevus syndrome . the epidermal growth factor receptor concentration was strikingly elevated in suprabasilar keratinocytes of growing seborrheic keratoses and acrochordons from patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome who were pregnant or taking sex steroid hormones and less elevated in growing seborrheic keratoses from other patients . in contrast , the epidermal growth factor receptor distribution pattern in acrochordons did not correlate as well with the history of growth of these lesions in normal patients . these data suggest sex steroids may affect epidermal growth factor receptor metabolism in benign epidermal hyperproliferative lesions , particularly in patients with the dysplastic nevus syndrome . 
gb3 monoclonal antibody for the diagnosis of junctional epidermolysis bullosa : results of a multicenter study . gb3 monoclonal antibody detects a normal basement membrane component ( gb3 antigen ) that is variably expressed in junctional epidermolysis bullosa . to assess the accuracy of gb3 in the diagnosis of junctional epidermolysis bullosa , we have reviewed its use in 250 cases of the major types of epidermolysis bullosa . in the majority of cases of the simplex and dystrophic forms of epidermolysis bullosa , gb3 antigen is normally expressed . in the herlitz variant of junctional epidermolysis bullosa , gb3 antigen expression is consistently abnormal , but in the non-herlitz and indeterminate forms of junctional epidermolysis bullosa , 40 % of cases express gb3 antigen normally . we propose that gb3 monoclonal antibody is useful in the accurate identification of patients with herlitz junctional epidermolysis bullosa and may prove equal to electron microscopy for the diagnosis of this disease . for the non-herlitz variants , it should not be used as an alternative to electron microscopy but may be of special value in the determination of prognosis . 
host genetic influences on fetal susceptibility to murine cytomegalovirus after maternal or fetal infection . genetically determined resistance to murine cytomegalovirus is observed in adult mice and is mediated in part by genes of the h-2 complex , with the h-2k haplotype conferring resistance . this model was used to examine the effect of primary maternal infection on fetal outcome . the severity of fetal growth retardation and death after primary maternal infection on day 8 of pregnancy was found to be genetically determined . fetal viability and weight were significantly lower in infected balb/c mothers ( h-2d ) than in cba ( h-2k ) and balb.k ( h-2k ) mothers . however , fetal infection was not detected , suggesting that the resistance mechanisms operate at the level of the mother or placenta . by directly inoculating fetuses in utero , it was shown that genetic factors in the fetus can influence the level of fetal infection and viability . these results point to the possibility that host genetic factors may modulate maternal and fetal cytomegalovirus infections in humans . 
accessory arm -- dysraphism or disparity ? case report . the case of a 3-month-old infant with an accessory third arm is reported . the extra appendage was attached at the midcervical region and was associated with posterior cervical dysraphism and a cervical cord lipoma . possible theories of origin are examined . 
polyorchidism : case report and review of literature . polyorchidism is a rare anomaly with approximately 70 cases reported in the literature . it may result from transverse division of the urogenital ridge , a hypothesis that best explains the anatomical features of the supernumerary testicle . the primary accompanying disorders and anomalies include maldescended testis , inguinal hernia and torsion . malignancy has been reported in 3 cases . in the absence of any concomitant disorder and if testicular tumor can be ruled out by magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasonography , surgical exploration with biopsy is unnecessary . 
mortality in hereditary antithrombin-iii deficiency -- 1830 to 1989 to determine whether antithrombin-iii ( at-iii ) deficiency leads to an excess mortality , we studied 171 individuals from ten families with a proven hereditary deficiency . 73 were classified as certainly deficient either by direct measurement of at-iii concentration or by mendelian inheritance patterns . 98 individuals had a high probability ( 0.5 ) of deficiency . the 64 deaths recorded did not exceed those expected for the general population adjusted for age , sex , and calendar period . we suggest that a policy of prophylactic anticoagulation for patients with at-iii deficiency can not be recommended . 
the relationship between maternal hematocrit and pregnancy outcome the relationship between maternal hematocrit and pregnancy outcome at various times in pregnancy was studied in 17,149 iron - and folate-supplemented pregnant women . on univariate analysis , early-pregnancy hematocrits below 37 % were associated with preterm delivery . however , this relationship was not confirmed by multivariate analysis controlling for other risk factors . on both univariate and multivariate analyses , both early and later in pregnancy , hematocrits above 40 % were associated with preterm delivery . in every gestational time period , at least part of the excess of preterm births was explained by an increase in indicated preterm deliveries . in both early and late pregnancy , and in both the univariate and multivariate analyses , only high hematocrits were associated with fetal growth retardation . the strongest association ( odds ratio above 2 ) between high hematocrit and both fetal growth retardation and preterm delivery occurred with hematocrits at or above 43 % at 31-34 weeks ' gestation . 
vision despite tomographic absence of the occipital cortex . a 14-month-old boy with developmental delay showed microcephaly , spastic diplegia , central visual fixation and an esotropia . a head tomographic scan disclosed absence of normal occipital cortex and electroencephalography showed markedly reduced voltages over the occipital region . visual development in this patient may be related to heterotopic occipital cortex of a functioning non-striate system of visual processing . visual function can not be predicted when severe developmental anomalies of the occipital cortex are detected with computerized tomography . 
nitrogen deposition in malnourished children with cystic fibrosis . to determine the protein nutritional status of 21 malnourished children with cystic fibrosis ( cf ) , total body nitrogen ( tbn ) was measured and the results were compared with 21 control subjects . cf patients demonstrated a lower tbn ( p less than 0.001 ) . when matched for height ( n = 10 ) or bone age ( n = 13 ) , the cf patients still had a depressed tbn/height or tbn/lean body mass ( p less than 0.05 ) . to assess nitrogen deposition during nutritional rehabilitation , repeat tbn measurements were performed on the 21 cf patients . nitrogen deposition ranged from -230 to 550 g/y and correlated with weight velocity ( r = 0.78 , p less than 0.001 ) . increased nitrogen deposition ( greater than 150 g/y ) was generally associated with normal height gain ( height velocity sd score greater than -2.00 ) and weight gain ( greater than 2.0 kg/y ) . decreased nitrogen deposition was associated with poor weight gain but did not preclude normal linear growth . these data suggest an important role for tbn estimations in defining protein nutritional status in children and indicate that skeletal growth can continue in the presence of minimal nitrogen deposition . 
" woven " right coronary artery : case report and therapeutic implications . we report an unusual anomaly of the right coronary artery consisting of proximal branching of the artery and subsequent interweaving of the branches , referred to as a " woven " coronary artery . implications and differential diagnosis are discussed . 
preconception care of diabetes . glycemic control prevents congenital anomalies . to test the value of intensive management of diabetes before and during early pregnancy , 84 women recruited prior to conception were compared with 110 women who were already pregnant referred at 6 to 30 weeks ' gestation . all underwent daily measurement of fasting and postprandial capillary blood glucose levels . mean blood glucose levels during embryogenesis and organogenesis were within 3.3 to 7.8 mmol/l in 50 % of preconception subjects and exceeded 10 mmol/l in 6.5 % . one major congenital anomaly occurred in 84 infants ( 1.2 % ) of women treated before conception compared with 12 anomalies in 110 infants ( 10.9 % ) of mothers in the postconception group . transient symptomatic hypoglycemia occurred during embryogenesis in 60 % of women in the preconception group , with a median frequency of 2.7 episodes per week , but was not associated with excess malformations . we conclude that education and intensive management for glycemic control of diabetic women before and during early pregnancy will prevent excess rates of congenital anomalies in their infants . 
occlusion of umbilical artery in acardiac , acephalic twin . in the acardiac , acephalic twin malformation the normal co-twin is put at risk because of the extra cardiac work-load . surgical procedures may be hazardous to the mother . we describe a novel approach -- the insertion of a helical metal coil to induce thrombosis in the umbilical artery of the acardiac twin -- which immediately interrupted flow . the co-twin was delivered at 39 weeks and his neonatal course has been normal . 
viral pneumonia in the first month of life . we performed a 5-year review of 40 patients less than or equal to 30 days of age with viral pneumonia . isolates included respiratory syncytial virus ( 55 % ) , enteroviruses ( 15 % ) , rhinoviruses ( 15 % ) , adenoviruses ( 10 % ) , parainfluenza virus ( 7.5 % ) and herpes simplex virus ( 5 % ) . most infants were previously healthy but had ill family members . nine were born at less than 37 weeks of gestation . symptoms and signs included tachypnea , decreased feeding , cough , cyanosis , lethargy , retractions , apnea , bradycardia , seizures and depressed consciousness . seasonality and clinical features , but not radiographic patterns , suggested specific pathogens . patients were moderately to severely ill . the median duration of hospitalization was 7 days ; therapies administered included oxygen ( 90 % ) , mechanical ventilation ( 45 % ) , blood transfusions ( 25 % ) and supplemental oxygen after discharge ( 27 % ) . the case fatality rate was 7.5 % . prematurity , ill appearance at presentation , lobar consolidation and adenovirus infection were risk factors for severe disease . 
cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator : nucleotide binding to a synthetic peptide . multiple mutations in the gene responsible for cystic fibrosis are located within a region predicted to encode a nucleotide-binding fold in the amino terminal half of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein . a 67-amino acid peptide ( p-67 ) that corresponds to the central region of this putative nucleotide binding site was chemically synthesized and purified . this peptide bound adenine nucleotides . the apparent dissociation constants ( kd 's ) for the trinitrophenyl ( tnp ) adenine nucleotides , tnp-adenosine triphosphate , tnp-adenosine diphosphate , and tnp-adenosine monophosphate , were 300 nanomolar , 200 nanomolar , and greater than 1 micromolar , respectively . the kd for adenosine triphosphate was 300 micromolar . circular dichroism spectroscopy was used to show that p-67 assumes a predominantly beta sheet structure in solution , a finding that is consistent with secondary structure predictions . on the basis of this information , the phenylalanine at position 508 , which is deleted in approximately 70 percent of individuals with cystic fibrosis , was localized to a beta strand within the nucleotide binding peptide . deletion of this residue is predicted to induce a significant structural change in the beta strand and altered nucleotide binding . 
tuberous sclerosis . tuberous sclerosis is an inherited disorder characterized by a triad of signs -- mental retardation , seizures and adenoma sebaceum . the hamartomas that commonly affect multiple organ systems can be seen on plain film radiography . computed tomography and ultrasonography are useful for assessing whether lesions are present in the abdomen , kidneys and brain . the hamartomas tend to bleed , causing symptoms and prompting the need for evaluation . 
a dimorphic 4-bp repeat in the cystic fibrosis gene is in absolute linkage disequilibrium with the delta f508 mutation : implications for prenatal diagnosis and mutation origin . the gene causing cystic fibrosis ( cf ) has been recently cloned , and the major mutation ( delta f508 ) accounting for approximately 70 % of cf chromosomes has been uncovered . we have identified at the 3 ' end of intron 6 in the cf gene a 4-bp tandem repeat ( gatt ) that exhibits interesting features . first , pcr screening of 103 normal individuals revealed that the repeat exists only in two polymorphic allelic forms , either as a hexamer or a heptamer . these two alleles are in hardy-weinberg equilibrium and predict a heterozygote frequency of 41 % ( p [ seven repeats ] = .71 ; q [ six repeats ] = .29 ) . second , the allele with six repeats was found linked to delta f508 on all 76 cf chromosomes investigated , demonstrating strong linkage disequilibrium and suggesting that delta f508 had originated on the gene bearing six repeats . third , when the repeat alleles are linked to the dna markers xv2c and km19 , extended haplotypes are generated . these new haplotypes become informative in situations in which prenatal diagnosis can not be performed solely with xv2c and km19 . since this repeat marker is located in the cf gene and would be very less likely to recombine with the gene , it can serve as a valuable dna marker for haplotype analysis . a possible crossover , however , was identified between xv2c and km19 , transferring delta f508 to a different haplotype . 
two frameshift mutations in the cystic fibrosis gene . cystic fibrosis ( cf ) is a recessive disease caused by mutations in the cf transmembrane conductance regulator ( cftr ) gene . we have identified in exon 7 two frameshift mutations , one caused by a two-nucleotide insertion and the other caused by a one-nucleotide deletion ; these mutations -- cf1154instc and cf1213delt , respectively , are predicted to shift the reading frame of the protein and to introduce uaa ( ochre ) termination codons at residues 369 and 368 . 
closure of the ductus arteriosus with indomethacin in ventilated neonates with respiratory distress syndrome . effects of pulmonary compliance and ventilation . the reported effects of indomethacin on pulmonary compliance are variable depending upon the patient population and on the degree to which indomethacin resulted in successful ductal closure . eleven fluid-restricted , furosemide-treated premature infants being mechanically ventilated for respiratory distress syndrome ( rds ) who also had a significant patent ductus arteriosus ( pda ) had pulmonary function testing performed before and after successful closure of the pda . the diagnosis of a significant pda was made by clinical and echocardiographic criteria . indomethacin was administered at a dosage of 0.2 mg/kg/dose every 12 to 18 h for 1 to 3 doses . to control for the 48-h time interval to achieve ductal closure , nine premature infants being ventilated for rds but who did not have a significant pda also had pulmonary function evaluations performed before and after the 48 h. also , to control for the independent effect of fluid restriction and diuretic therapy on pulmonary compliance , eight such premature infants with a pda had pulmonary function evaluations performed at a 48-h interval . successful closure of the ductus with indomethacin was associated with an improvement in compliance and ventilation parameters in all infants in the indomethacin-treated infants . in the indomethacin-treated group , the mean percent improvements were noted in the following parameters : cldyn , 59.2 % ; cli , 78.3 % ; cle , 63.3 % ; vt , 63.3 % ; ve , 54.6 % . there were no significant changes in the pulmonary functions in the 48-h rds or the 48-h pda fluid-restricted , furosemide-treated control groups . in conclusion , successful closure of the ductus with indomethacin causes a significant improvement in compliance and ventilation parameters in infants being mechanically ventilated for rds . 
video viewing as an alternative to sedation for young subjects who have cardiac ultrasound examinations . sedation is often required for extended or quantitative echocardiographic examination of young patients . to test the hypothesis that patient viewing of entertaining videotapes during echocardiographic examinations would reduce the need for sedation and that doppler pressure gradients so obtained would correspond satisfactorily with subsequent catheterization pressure gradients , 38 patients ( age , 5 to 64 months ; mean age , 18.6 months ) with a variety of cardiac defects were studied . because of excessive activity , resistance , fear , or crying , all of these patients would have normally been sedated . instead , an age-appropriate videotape was used for patient viewing . in 35 of 38 patients , complete examinations were obtained with video viewing with no sedation . twelve study patients later underwent catheterization while receiving sedation . the doppler pressure gradients obtained while patients were viewing videotapes corresponded well with catheterization ( r = 0.94 ) . however , those pressure gradients were higher than those obtained with catheterization ( mean , 8.3 mm hg ) , but there was only one significant discrepancy of 22 mm hg . in this series , complete examinations were obtained without sedation in 92 % of subjects who would have normally required sedation ( p less than 0.001 ) , with minimal reduction in the accuracy of prediction of subsequent sedated catheterization pressure gradients . this suggests that near baseline conditions existed while patients were viewing television . video viewing during echocardiographic examinations appears to be advantageous . 
evaluation of pulmonary arterial pressure by doppler colour flow mapping in patients with a ductus arteriosus . blood flow in the pulmonary artery was studied by doppler colour flow mapping and cardiac catheterisation in 19 patients with a ductus arteriosus and different pulmonary artery pressures . in the four patients with normal pulmonary artery pressures colour doppler flow mapping showed multicoloured wide and long systolic and diastolic jets in the pulmonary artery . in the 15 patients with raised pulmonary arterial pressure the systolic jets varied from multicoloured to red and were thinner : in patients with considerably raised pulmonary arterial pressure the jets became redder during diastole . the doppler velocity tracings showed that in patients with normal pulmonary artery pressures the mean peak systolic velocity was higher than the mean end diastolic velocity -- so that in all four the ratio of peak systolic velocity to end diastolic velocity was less than 2 . the mean peak systolic velocity was much higher than the mean end diastolic velocity in 13 of the 15 patients with raised pulmonary artery pressure ; this meant that the ratio of peak systolic velocity to end diastolic velocity was greater than 2 in 10 of 11 patients . the end diastolic velocity was significantly lower in those patients with raised pulmonary artery pressure than in those with normal artery pressure . there was an inverse linear correlation between the mean pulmonary artery pressure and end diastolic ductal jet velocity in 17 of the 19 patients . colour flow mapping and this quantitative doppler technique can detect pulmonary artery hypertension in patients with a ductus arteriosus . 
early diastolic clicks after the fontan procedure for double inlet left ventricle : anatomical and physiological correlates . m mode echocardiograms and simultaneous phonocardiograms were recorded in four patients with early diastolic clicks on auscultation . all had double inlet left ventricle and had undergone the fontan procedure with closure of the right atrioventricular valve orifice by an artificial patch . the phonocardiogram confirmed a high frequency sound occurring 60-90 ms after aortic valve closure and coinciding with the time of maximal excursion of the atrioventricular valve patch towards the ventricular mass . one patient had coexisting congenital complete heart block . the m mode echocardiogram showed " reversed " motion of the patch towards the right atrium during atrial contraction . doppler flow studies showed that coincident with this motion there was forward flow in the pulmonary artery with augmentation when atrial contraction coincided with ventricular systole . the early diastolic click in these patients was explained by abrupt cessation of the motion of the atrioventricular valve patch towards the ventricular mass in early diastole . in one patient atrial contraction led to a reversal of this motion and was associated with forward flow in the pulmonary artery . 
cor triatriatum dexter : antemortem diagnosis in an adult by cross sectional echocardiography . cor triatriatum dexter is a rare cardiac abnormality in which the right atrium is subdivided into two distinct chambers . this anomaly is generally attributed to the persistence of the right sinus venosus valve and it is frequently associated with severe malformations of other right heart structures . the antemortem diagnosis of the membrane may be difficult and its presence is often only established at necropsy . in a woman of 56 with ebstein 's anomaly the echocardiographic features of cor triatriatum dexter were examined before and during cardiac catheterisation . these investigations showed the position of the membrane , that there was no gradient between the two atrial chambers , and that there were perforations in the centre of the membrane . 
polyhydramnios and associated maternal and fetal complications in singleton pregnancies . during the 10-year period 1 january 1979 to 31 december 1988 , polyhydramnios occurred in 537 patients with singleton pregnancies delivered at the mercy maternity hospital . associated maternal and fetal complications and the perinatal outcome of these pregnancies with polyhydramnios were analysed . in 248 of the 537 pregnancies ( 46 % ) in this group there were no maternal complications or fetal malformations and the perinatal mortality ( pnm ) rate was 2.4 % . the pnm rate increased significantly to 13.1 % when there was associated pre-eclampsia , 10 % with gestational diabetes , and to 7.6 % with miscellaneous complications . when polyhydramnios was associated with a fetal or placental malformation the pnm rate was 61.4 % . the commonest malformations were central nervous system ( 31 % ) , musculoskeletal ( 12 % ) and gastrointestinal system anomalies ( 10 % ) . placental chorioangioma occurred in two patients ( 0.4 % ) and both babies died . in women with low oestriol excretion ( 18 % of the 455 tested ) the pnm rate increased five times to 22.7 % . 
lectin binding sites in normal , scarred , and lattice dystrophy corneas . normal , scarred , and dystrophic corneas were histochemically probed with a panel of 16 lectins by means of an avidin-biotin revealing system . normal corneal epithelial cells , keratocytes , and endothelial cells expressed at least two distinct n-linked oligosaccharide subsets , of the non-bisected , biantennary and bisected , bi - / triantennary types . corneal scars stained variably with the lectin subsets described above , and with maclura pomifera agglutinin . lattice dystrophy corneas showed a loss of the oligosaccharide expression observed on the plasma membranes of normal epithelial cells , and there was concurrent deposition of extracellular glycoprotein within the corneal stroma , which was of the same oligosaccharide subsets as were lost from the epithelial cell plasma membranes . this extracellular stromal glycoprotein was far more widely deposited than the amyloid and extended well beyond the stromal scarring . we propose that these observations are related and that in lattice corneal dystrophy a glycoprotein ( s ) is shed from the plasma membranes of epithelial cells and sequestrated within the corneal stroma , where it subsequently stimulates amyloid deposition . 
prospective follow-up for malignant melanoma in patients with atypical-mole ( dysplastic-nevus ) syndrome . a total of 357 white patients who had melanocytic nevi that fulfilled the clinical criteria for the " classic " atypical-mole ( dysplastic-nevus ) syndrome ( 100 or more melanocytic nevi ; one or more melanocytic nevi 8 mm or larger in diameter ; and , one or more melanocytic nevi with atypical features ) were followed for the development of cutaneous malignant melanomas . seventeen patients ( 4.8 % ) developed malignant melanomas during an average follow-up period of 49 months . one patient developed two malignant melanomas . eight of the malignant melanomas detected were in situ and ten were invasive melanomas ( less than 0.86 mm in breslow thickness ) , implying an excellent prognosis . the number of malignant melanomas detected in these patients exceeded significantly the number expected to occur in age - and sex-matched white controls . all groups were shown to have an increased risk for the development of malignant melanomas . total-body photographs were helpful in detecting changes in size , shape , and color that led to the diagnosis of malignant melanoma . these data support the concept that patients with this readily regionalized clinical presentation of classic atypical-mole syndrome are at an increased risk for malignant melanomas and , therefore , should be examined regularly . 
sensitization to aztreonam and cross-reactivity with other beta-lactam antibiotics in high-risk patients with cystic fibrosis . the immunogenicity , allergenicity , and cross-reactivity of aztreonam were investigated in 21 patients with cystic fibrosis ( cf ) ( aged 5 to 39 years ) with well-documented histories of allergic systemic reactions ( srs ) to penicillin and/or cephalosporin antipseudomonal beta-lactam antibiotics ( blas ) . skin tests ( sts ) with penicilloyl-polylysine ( ppl ) , penicillin minor determinant mixture , and antipseudomonal bla were positive in 19 patients ( 90 % ) . the bla causing the most recent allergic reaction , minor determinant mixture , or ppl , was positive in 89 % , 53 % , and 32 % of st-positive patients , respectively . serum ppl-specific ige antibodies were not detectable , although ppl-specific igg antibodies were found in 64 % of patients tested . sts to aztreonam reagents were performed and were initially negative in 20 patients . one patient was st positive to the polylysine conjugate of hydrolyzed aztreonam ( sq 27629 ) , despite no prior exposure to aztreonam , and was not treated . of 20 patients treated with aztreonam , four were demonstrated to be sensitized by exposure ( one had an sr during initial treatment course , two had srs on reexposure , and one patient was asymptomatic after intravenous desensitization ) by positive aztreonam reagent skin responses on repeat testing . aztreonyl-specific ige and igg serum antibodies were not detected in any patients , including patients with allergic reactions to aztreonam . thus , aztreonam is generally well tolerated in high-risk patients with cf allergic to other blas and appears to have reduced immunogenicity by serologic testing . however , caution should be exercised with aztreonam in bla-allergic patients with cf in light of 5 % preexisting st cross-reactivity and 20 % sensitization rates found in this study . 
biotin deficiency per se is teratogenic in mice . we examined whether maternal biotin deficiency would potentiate the latent teratogenicity of relatively low doses of vitamin a in mice . the incidence and the type of gross congenital malformations ( cleft palate , micrognathia , and micromelia ) induced by biotin deficiency were similar among the groups given three different concentrations of vitamin a ( 4000 , 12,000 and 60,000 iu ) in the diet . also , the type of these malformations was different from those ( exencephaly , cleft palate and macroglossia ) induced by a known teratogenic dose of vitamin a ( 1,200,000 iu ) . we conclude that in mice concentrations of vitamin a in the range of 4-10 times the level recommended by the national research council and biotin deficiency do not interfere with one another ; also , biotin deficiency per se is teratogenic in mice . 
requirement for the replication protein ssb in human dna excision repair . replication and repair are essential processes that maintain the continuity of the genetic material . dissection of simian virus 40 ( sv40 ) dna replication has resulted in the identification of many eukaryotic replication proteins , but the biochemistry of the multienzyme process of dna excision repair is less well defined . one protein that is absolutely required for semiconservative replication of sv40 dna in vitro is human single-stranded dna-binding protein ( ssb , also called rf-a and rp-a ) . ssb consists of three polypeptides of relative molecular mass 70,000 , 34,000 and 13,000 , and acts with t antigen and topoisomerases to unwind dna , allowing the access of other replication proteins . human ssb can also stimulate the activity of polymerases alpha and delta , suggesting a further role in elongation during dna replication . we have now found a role for human ssb in dna excision repair using a cell-free system that can carry out nucleotide excision repair in vitro . monoclonal antibodies against human ssb caused extensive inhibition of dna repair in plasmid molecules damaged by ultraviolet light or acetylaminofluorene . addition of purified ssb reversed this inhibition and further stimulated repair synthesis by increasing the number of repair events . these results show that a mammalian dna replication protein is also essential for repair . 
delayed-onset dystonia due to perinatal or early childhood asphyxia . we report 10 patients with delayed-onset dystonia associated with perinatal asphyxia and 2 associated with asphyxia in childhood . in the perinatal group , the mean age of onset was 12.9 years . among these patients , dystonia continued to progress for a mean of 7 years , and as long as 28 years . these patients had moderate motor disability ; none was wheelchair-bound , and thus their prognosis was better than that of the childhood-onset idiopathic torsion dystonias . the most frequently beneficial drugs were anticholinergics . since some of these patients closely resembled cases of idiopathic torsion dystonia , the prior occurrence of asphyxia should be used as a criterion of exclusion for that diagnosis . 
detection of tuberous sclerosis in parents by magnetic resonance imaging . we performed a detailed physical examination and mri without gadolinium dtpa contrast in 60 couples with at least 1 child having tuberous sclerosis ( ts ) . eight parents had ts diagnosed by physical examination , family history , or various diagnostic procedures including mri . eight additional subjects and 6 control subjects had nonspecific high-signal white matter changes on mri . mri confirmed the diagnosis of ts in only 1 parent without physical findings of the disease , similar to the results of earlier studies using computed cranial tomography . ct may be less sensitive than mri but is probably more specific for ts . either ct or mri may occasionally help substantiate the diagnosis of ts in a parent with few other findings . both studies may need to be done in some parents to maximize the accuracy of genetic counseling . 
validation of the 1988 acog forceps classification system . in february 1988 , an acog committee opinion substantially revised the classification of forceps operations . the revision addressed two significant shortcomings of the old system : outlet forceps had been defined too narrowly and midforceps too imprecisely . we now report the results of a prospective study of 357 forceps deliveries classified using each system . allowing up to 45 degrees of rotation in an outlet forceps delivery did not increase morbidity measured by any criterion . dividing the old midforceps group by precisely identifying station and rotation permitted greater stratification of the risks of short-term neonatal and maternal morbidity . we conclude that our results validate the 1988 classification scheme . 
brain growth among fetuses exposed to cocaine in utero : asymmetrical growth retardation . fetal growth retardation may be associated with maternal cocaine use during pregnancy . the pattern of fetal growth retardation was analyzed in infants born to 80 women who used cocaine , but not alcohol , during pregnancy , and in two comparison groups : 100 infants born to mothers who used neither alcohol nor cocaine during pregnancy and 67 infants whose mothers used alcohol but not cocaine during pregnancy . there were statistically significant differences in head size between the unexposed and cocaine-exposed infants ( p less than .001 ) . notably , head circumference was reduced proportionately more than birth weight in cocaine-exposed infants , a pattern similar to that observed in alcohol-exposed infants . alcohol - and cocaine-exposed infants were not statistically different in head circumference . we conclude that brain growth of cocaine-exposed infants is similar to that reported for alcohol-exposed infants , and that cocaine-exposed infants may be characterized as having asymmetrical growth retardation . 
fetal renal artery velocity waveforms and amniotic fluid volume in growth-retarded and post-term fetuses . renal blood flow velocity waveforms were recorded by doppler ultrasonography in 114 growth-retarded fetuses and in 97 post-term fetuses . the pulsatility index ( pi ) values were compared with our reference limits for gestational age and related to the amount of amniotic fluid . growth-retarded fetuses showed significantly increased pi values compared with normally grown fetuses , and this difference was particularly evident in cases of oligohydramnios . furthermore , there was a significant negative correlation between the increase in pi and the amniotic fluid volume . post-term fetuses showed no significant differences in pi values compared with term fetuses and no significant correlation between the amount of amniotic fluid and pi values . 
diverse maternal and fetal pathology associated with absent diastolic flow in the umbilical artery of high-risk fetuses . twenty-two of approximately 450 high-risk pregnancies referred to a regional center for a level ii sonographic examination after 20 weeks ' gestation were characterized by absent or reversed diastolic flow in the umbilical artery . ten fetuses had congenital malformations or were aneuploid . ten were growth-retarded in association with other problems : maternal hypertension , preeclampsia , cyanotic heart disease , elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein levels , or twin gestation . in two cases , no etiology could be identified . knowledge of the fetal karyotype , fetal anatomy , gestational age , maternal disease , and fetal status as determined by other tests of fetal well-being was required to optimize outcome in each case . in view of the heterogeneous etiologies of absent or reversed diastolic flow , management of such cases must be individualized . 
a cytogenetic study of spontaneous abortions with direct analysis of chorionic villi . the karyotypes of 144 spontaneous abortuses were determined using direct chromosome preparations from chorionic villi . the frequency of chromosome abnormality was 69.4 % , which is considerably higher than figures cited in most previous cytogenetic surveys using the conventional method of cell culturing . autosomal trisomy was the predominant abnormality ( 64 % ) , followed by polyploidy ( 9 % ) , monosomy x ( 7 % ) , structural rearrangements ( 6 % ) , mosaicism ( 6 % ) , double trisomy ( 4 % ) , and double chromosome anomaly ( 3 % ) . direct preparations have advantages in that results can be obtained rapidly , the success rate of karyotyping is satisfactory , and maternal-cell contamination is minimal . 
enlarged cisterna magna and the dandy-walker malformation : factors associated with chromosome abnormalities . thirty-three fetuses with an enlarged cisterna magna ( 10 mm or more ) were evaluated to determine factors that might be associated with an underlying chromosome abnormality . eighteen fetuses ( 55 % ) proved to have a chromosome abnormality , including trisomy 18 or trisomy 18 variant ( 12 ) , trisomy 13 ( three ) , turner syndrome ( one ) , or other rearrangements ( two ) . among various risk factors analyzed , the absence of ventricular dilatation correlated most strongly with a chromosome abnormality . chromosome abnormalities were found in 17 of 22 fetuses ( 77 % ) lacking ventricular dilatation , compared with only one of 11 fetuses ( 9 % ) with ventricular dilatation ( p less than .001 ) . other factors statistically associated ( p less than .01 ) with an underlying chromosome abnormality included mild enlargement of the cisterna magna ( 10-14 mm ) , concurrent anomalies detected sonographically , and fetal growth retardation . however , stepwise logistic regression showed that only the absence of ventricular dilatation and the presence of concurrent anomalies were significant when multiple factors were evaluated . these observations support the utility of evaluating the cisterna magna as part of a routine anatomical survey . 
first - and second-trimester diagnosis of fetal ocular defects and associated anomalies : report of eight cases . ocular cataract , hypertelorism , hypotelorism , anophthalmos , and microphthalmos are rare malformations commonly associated with other fetal anomalies . previously , ocular malformations were detected only after mid-gestation . transvaginal sonography allows the detection of many structural fetal anomalies . we describe the case reports of eight ocular anomalies among 1600 fetal screenings by transvaginal sonography at 12-18 weeks ' gestation . severe cataract was correctly diagnosed by transvaginal sonography . however , transvaginal sonography failed to detect moderate cataract in a case of repeat cataract in a subsequent gestation . anophthalmia may sometimes be secondary to a degenerative process in middle and late pregnancy . in five of the eight described cases , the eye malformations were associated with defects of the central nervous system . 
scoliosis in trisomy 18 . patients with trisomy 18 typically present with multiple congenital anomalies and most die within the first year . however , long-term survivors are not uncommon . seventeen patients with trisomy 18 were evaluated to study the development of scoliosis associated with this disorder . there were 13 females and 4 males with ages ranging from birth to 22 years . twelve patients died by age 2 . none developed scoliosis or had vertebral anomalies . the five patients who survived beyond age 2 developed scoliosis . curve progression was demonstrated in the patients who returned for follow-up . bracing was not well tolerated in two patients with curves of 48 degrees and 58 degrees . both had poor motor control and sitting ability . one patient with a 30 degree curve was successfully managed by bracing . another patient with a severe scoliosis was successfully fused with anterior and posterior instrumentation . patients with trisomy 18 should be carefully evaluated for scoliosis . scoliosis in the older child , surviving beyond age 2 , may be progressive and difficult to manage . 
lung function 8-18 years after intermittent positive pressure ventilation for hyaline membrane disease . lung function and respiratory symptoms were studied in 40 children aged 8-18 years who had been ventilated for hyaline membrane disease after birth ; 11 had had bronchopulmonary dysplasia . also studied were 38 age matched children who had had hyaline membrane disease but had not required ventilation , 25 unmatched children who were born prematurely but did not develop hyaline membrane disease , and 39 randomly selected pupils of similar age . there was no difference in thoracic gas volume , total lung capacity , inspiratory vital capacity , residual volume , or transfer factor for carbon monoxide between the groups . respiratory symptoms during the three years before the study and the frequency of clinically diagnosed asthma in patients and their family were similar in all the children with hyaline membrane disease irrespective of whether they had been ventilated or had had bronchopulmonary dysplasia . the children with bronchopulmonary dysplasia , however , had a lower forced expiratory volume in one second ( fev1 ) before bronchodilator ( 73 % predicted ) than the other groups ( 88-95 % predicted ) . children who had required ventilation had lower values for specific airways conductance ( sgaw ) and a greater increase in fev1 ( delta fev1 ) after salbutamol ( 13 % ) than non-ventilated children ( 6 % ) ; delta fev1 was associated with the peak pressure of intermittent positive pressure ventilation , a family history of asthma and a history of wheezing , recurrent respiratory illnesses , and a doctor 's diagnosis of asthma during the three years before the study . these findings indicate that after eight years of age patients with bronchopulmonary dysplasia have more reversible airways obstruction , compatible with increased bronchial smooth muscle tone . 
life threatening haemoptysis in cystic fibrosis : an alternative therapeutic approach [ published erratum appears in thorax 1991 apr ; 46 ( 4 ) :274 ] desmopressin and vasopressin were used to control massive haemoptysis in a patient with cystic fibrosis . after bolus doses a continuous infusion of vasopressin was maintained for 36 hours and haemoptysis stopped . 
postterm infants : too big or too small ? concern over the postterm pregnancy has shifted from that of the difficult delivery of an excessively large fetus to the current concern with death in utero of an undernourished , small-for-date fetus . studies of postterm pregnancy before the availability of ultrasonography may have included a large proportion of erroneous menstrual dates . the present study of 7000 infants was undertaken to reassess fetal growth in postterm pregnancies in which the expected date of confinement from last normal menstrual period dating was confirmed ( + / - 7 days ) by early ultrasonography . results show a gradual shift toward higher birth weight and greater crown-heel length and head circumference between 273 and 300 days of gestational age . no evidence of postterm weight loss or lower weight for length could be demonstrated . concern in postterm pregnancy should be for fetal macrosomia , not for intrauterine growth retardation . 
neonatal complications at term as related to the degree of umbilical artery acidemia . the degree of umbilical arterial acidemia associated with immediate newborn morbidity has not been determined . therefore we compared 358 term infants with umbilical artery acidemia ( ph less than 7.20 ) with 358 term , nonacidotic matched control infants , to evaluate immediate neonatal complications in both groups . nonacidotic was defined as an umbilical artery ph greater than or equal to 7.20 . complications included seizures , persistent hypotonia , and/or signs of end-organ damage such as renal or cardiac dysfunction . none of the 693 newborns with an umbilical artery ph greater than or equal to 7.00 had such complications . two of 23 infants with an umbilical artery ph less than 7.00 had sequelae related to intrapartum asphyxia . in these two infants the umbilical artery ph was less than 7.00 , the 1-minute and 5-minute apgar scores were less than or equal to 3 and the acidemia was metabolic in nature . 
unilateral diffuse pulmonary artery involvement in takayasu 's arteritis associated with coronary-pulmonary artery fistula and bronchial-pulmonary artery fistula : a case report . diffuse involvement of the right pulmonary artery associated with fistulas between the pulmonary artery and systemic artery is reported in a woman with takayasu 's arteritis . the most proximal portion of the abdominal aorta was pronouncedly narrowed and the aortic wall was markedly calcified . both the celiac artery and the superior mesenteric artery were totally occluded and drained by the meandering artery arising from the inferior mesenteric artery . the proximal right pulmonary artery was focally narrowed and the middle lobe artery was occluded . all other branches of the right pulmonary artery were diffusely narrowed with sparse distributions of their distal branches . fistulas were identified between the right coronary artery and the right pulmonary artery and between the right bronchial artery and the right pulmonary artery . this is the first english report of takayasu 's arteritis presenting with a coronary-pulmonary artery fistula that is secondary to a diffuse unilateral involvement of the pulmonary artery . 
adenocarcinoma in barrett 's esophagus . a clinicopathologic study of 65 cases . the natural history of barrett 's esophagus , particularly the prevalence and incidence of malignant changes in it , remains controversial . furthermore the prognosis of surgically treated patients with carcinoma in barrett 's esophagus has not been elucidated fully . to examine these and other issues , the records of 65 patients with carcinoma in barrett 's esophagus presenting at the lahey clinic medical center from january 1973 to january 1989 were reviewed . during this period , 241 patients with documented barrett 's esophagus were seen , for a prevalence of carcinoma of 27 % . adenocarcinoma in barrett 's esophagus accounted for 30 % of the surgically treated carcinomas of the thoracic esophagus during this period . all but four of these patients were men . symptoms of chronic reflux were present in less than one half of the patients and dysphagia was often the presenting symptom . in eight patients the carcinoma was discovered on routine surveillance endoscopy , and in four patients progression of disease from benign columnar epithelium to dysplasia to carcinoma was documented . tumors developed in six patients who had undergone previous antireflux surgery , and in four other patients a second carcinoma developed in residual barrett 's epithelium after a previous resection . of the 65 patients , 61 ( 94 % ) were considered to have operable disease , all of whom underwent resection . two patients ( 3.3 % ) died within 30 days of operation . the resected specimens were staged as follows : stage 0 , 4 ; stage i , 10 ; stage ii , 17 ; stage iii , 25 ; stage iv , 4 . of the resected specimens , 73 % showed areas of dysplasia adjacent to the tumor . the overall adjusted actuarial 5-year survival rate was 23.7 % . the 3-year survival rate was 100 % for patients with stage 0 carcinoma , 85.7 % for patients with stage i carcinoma , 53.6 % for patients with stage iia carcinoma , 45 % for patients with stage iib carcinoma , 25.2 % for patients with stage iii carcinoma , and 0 % for patients with stage iv carcinoma . the premalignant nature of barrett 's esophagus requires endoscopic surveillance to detect early carcinoma because symptoms often occur late or are absent . antireflux surgery does not protect against the development of carcinoma . all of the barrett 's epithelium must be resected because a second carcinoma may develop in residual columnar epithelium . severe dysplasia should be considered an indication for resection . although operability and resectability rates are high , long-term survival is not . early detection is mandatory if long-term survival is to be achieved . 
outcome of pregnancy in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . a prospective study . a prospective study was performed to investigate the outcome and complications of pregnancy in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus . twenty-nine pregnancies occurred in 22 patients . there were 12 abortions , two spontaneous and 10 induced . fifteen women had 17 live-born neonates . neonatal complications included nine premature deliveries , two cases of intrauterine growth retardation , and one of treacher collins syndrome . obstetric complications included threatened abortion ( two ) , placenta previa ( two ) , and preeclampsia ( three ) . cesarean sections were necessary in five patients . there was no maternal or neonatal mortality . thirteen episodes of systemic lupus erythematosus relapses were detected by incidents of increasing proteinuria ( six ) , arthritis ( four ) , and vasculitic rash ( two ) . there were no statistical differences in changes in hemoglobin level , erythrocyte sedimentation rate , albumin level , antinuclear antibody titer , or c3 or c4 level between the patients who relapsed and those who did not . pregnancy could induce a flare of systemic lupus erythematosus in previously normal patients or patients with previously inactive disease . the overall neonatal and maternal survival was good , even in patients who presented during pregnancy . spontaneous fetal loss was low ( 2/29 [ 6.9 % ] ) ; both cases occurred in mothers with inactive lupus . 
visual evoked potentials and visual prognosis following perinatal asphyxia . twenty-five children born at term with perinatal asphyxia were studied at age 2.5 to 4.5 years to evaluate visual function and to determine the prognostic value of postnatal assessments of visual outcome . postnatal assessments included several visual evoked potentials and electroretinograms in the first week of life . follow-up assessments included flash and pattern visual evoked potentials , visual evoked potential threshold measurements , and clinical eye examinations . nineteen children had normal visual function , three were visually impaired , and three remained blind . a strong association was found between normal , abnormal , or absent visual evoked potentials in the early postnatal period and long-term visual outcome ( p less than .0001 ) . other perinatal indicators of asphyxia , including neurologic status , apgar scores , and arterial ph values , were poor predictors of visual outcome . the risk of visual impairment was limited to those survivors with neurodevelopmental deficits . 
hereditary internal anal sphincter myopathy causing proctalgia fugax and constipation . a newly identified condition . a newly identified myopathy of the internal anal sphincter is described . in the affected family , at least one member from each of five generations had severe proctalgia fugax ; onset was usually in the third to fifth decades of life . three members of the family have been studied in detail . each had severe pain intermittently during the day and hourly during the night . constipation was an associated symptom , in particular difficulty with rectal evacuation . clinically the internal anal sphincter was thickened and of decreased compliance . the maximum anal canal pressure was usually increased with marked ultraslow wave activity . anal endosonography confirmed a grossly thickened internal anal sphincter . two patients were treated by internal anal sphincter strip myectomy ; one showed marked improvement and one was relieved of the constipation but had only slight improvement of the pain . the hypertrophied muscle in two of the patients showed unique myopathic changes , consisting of vacuolar changes with periodic acid-schiff-positive polyglycosan bodies in the smooth muscle fibers and increased endomysial fibrosis . in vitro organ-bath studies showed insensitivity of the muscle to noradrenaline , isoprenaline , carbachol , dimethylpiperazinium , and electrical-field stimulation . immunohistochemical studies for substance p , calcitonin gene-related peptide , galanin , neuropeptide y , and vasoactive intestinal peptide showed staining in a similar distribution to that in control tissue . a specific autosomal-dominant inherited myopathy of the internal anal sphincter that causes anal pain and constipation has been identified and characterized . 
cerebral blood flow , cross-brain oxygen extraction , and fontanelle pressure after hypoxic-ischemic injury in newborn infants . the relationship between mean arterial pressure , intracranial pressure , cerebral blood flow , cross-brain oxygen extraction , cerebral metabolic rate , and outcome was studied during therapy in nine neonates on 3 consecutive days after severe hypoxic-ischemic cerebral injury . cross-brain oxygen extraction was significantly higher ( 5.06 + / - 0.5 vs 2.05 + / - 0.8 ml/dl ; p = 0.012 ) in the five neonates who survived with normal neurologic outcome than in the four who died or sustained severe brain damage . in contrast , global cerebral blood flow in the five neonates with normal neurologic outcome was significantly lower ( 25.6 + / - 8.2 vs 83.2 + / - 44.9 ml/100 gm brain/min ; p less than 0.05 ) during the study period . the differences in cross-brain oxygen extraction and global cerebral blood flow between infants who had neurologic recovery and those who died or sustained brain damage occurred in the presence of acceptable values for intracranial pressure , mean arterial pressure , and cerebral perfusion pressure . our preliminary data suggest that cross-brain oxygen extraction and possibly global cerebral blood flow may be important variables associated with severe neuronal injury and death after hypoxic-ischemic cerebral injury . 
biphasic reduction and concanavalin a binding properties of serum alpha-fetoprotein in preterm and term infants . reference values for postnatal serum alpha-fetoprotein ( afp ) and concanavalin a ( cona ) binding subfractions of afp in preterm and term infants are presented . preterm infants had 10-fold higher serum concentrations of afp than did term infants at birth . the reduction of serum values of afp was biphasic in both groups and differed significantly between the two groups . the first declining phase continued for approximately 4 months in preterm and for 2 months in term infants , and was related to the degree of prematurity . the afp values reached adult levels by 12 months in preterm and by 9 months in term infants . the developmental pattern of the carbohydrate moiety of afp was determined by cona fractioning . the proportion of the cona nonreactive subfraction of afp in preterm and term infants at birth was 6 % and 13 % , respectively ; it increased more rapidly in term than in preterm infants but reached 85 % to 95 % by the age of 6 months in both infant groups . our results indicate that the postnatal maturation of afp synthesis is dependent on gestational age . malignant recurrences of neonatal sacrococcygeal teratomas were associated with an increase in serum concentration of afp and a decrease in the proportion of the cona nonreactive subfraction of afp . 
decreased mortality rate among small premature infants treated at birth with a single dose of synthetic surfactant : a multicenter controlled trial . american exosurf pediatric study group 1 . to determine whether a single prophylactic dose of synthetic surfactant would reduce mortality and morbidity rates , we performed a randomized , controlled trial of exosurf neonatal at 19 hospitals in the united states . the exosurf preparation ( 5 ml/kg ) was instilled into the endotracheal tube of premature infants weighing 700 to 1100 gm during mechanical ventilation , as soon as practical after birth . control infants were treated with air ( 5 ml/kg ) . dose administration was performed in secrecy by clinicians who did not reveal for 2 years what they had instilled . a total of 222 infants received air and 224 received the synthetic surfactant ; 36 infants with congenital pneumonia or malformations were excluded from the primary efficacy analysis . by the age of 28 days , there were 44 deaths in the air group and 27 deaths in the surfactant group ( p = 0.022 ) . by the age of 1 year after term there were 61 deaths in the air group and 35 deaths in the surfactant group ( p = 0.002 ) . although there was no reduction in the incidence of respiratory distress syndrome , a significant reduction in the number of deaths attributed to respiratory distress syndrome , a significant reduction in the incidence of pulmonary air leaks , and significantly lower requirements for oxygen and mean airway pressure indicated that lung disease was less severe in the exosurf-treated infants . there were no significant differences in the incidence of complications such as bronchopulmonary dysplasia , intraventricular hemorrhage , patent ductus arteriosus , necrotizing enterocolitis , and infection . the results indicate that a single prophylactic dose of exosurf , in high-risk premature infants treated soon after birth , reduces the number of deaths from respiratory distress syndrome and the overall mortality rate . 
cesarean section before the onset of labor and subsequent motor function in infants with meningomyelocele diagnosed antenatally background . meningomyelocele can now be detected before birth . few data are available on its natural history , however , and optimal management at the time of delivery is controversial , although it has been suggested that labor and vaginal delivery may cause pressure on exposed nerve roots , resulting in additional loss of neural function . methods . to assess the effect of labor and the type of delivery on the level of motor function in fetuses with uncomplicated meningomyelocele , we identified 200 cases of this disorder , accounting for 95 percent of the cases that occurred in the state of washington during our 10-year study period . we compared the outcomes of 47 infants delivered by cesarean section before labor began , 35 delivered by cesarean section after a period of labor , and 78 who were delivered vaginally ( another 40 were ineligible for the study ) . in cases of meningomyelocele detected prenatally , cesarean section was performed before the onset of labor if isolated meningomyelocele without severe hydrocephalus was present . the infants delivered in this manner were compared with those who were delivered either vaginally or by cesarean section after labor began . results . at two years of age , the infants who had been exposed to labor were 2.2 times more likely to have severe paralysis than those delivered by cesarean section without labor ( 95 percent confidence interval , 1.7 to 2.8 ) . infants delivered by cesarean section before the beginning of labor had a mean ( + / - sd ) level of paralysis 3.3 + / - 3.0 segments below the anatomical level of the spinal lesion at two years of age , as compared with 1.1 + / - 2.3 for infants delivered vaginally and 0.9 + / - 4.1 for infants delivered by cesarean section after the beginning of labor ( p less than 0.001 for both comparisons ) . exposure to labor did not affect the frequency of neonatal complications or later intellectual performance . conclusions . for the fetus with uncomplicated meningomyelocele , delivery by cesarean section before the onset of labor may result in better subsequent motor function than vaginal delivery or delivery by cesarean section after a period of labor . 
enamel pitting : a common symptom of tuberous sclerosis . dental enamel pitting as a diagnostic sign of tuberous sclerosis is explored , and a protocol for the oral examination of patients and persons at risk is described . in this study 50 patients with tuberous sclerosis and 250 control patients were examined for dental enamel pitting . a simple clinical protocol was established for examination with the use of a dental disclosing solution swabbed on dry teeth . the incidence of enamel pitting in the adult dentition of patients with tuberous sclerosis was 100 % , whereas that in the adult dentition of the control group was 7 % . the simplicity of the test and the high probability of occurrence in tuberous sclerosis make such an examination useful in the diagnosis of this serious genetic disease . 
retinopathy of prematurity in infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease . we undertook a study of premature infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease to determine whether these infants develop retinopathy of prematurity despite a persistent hypoxemic state . using the computerized registry of the neonatal intensive care unit of vanderbilt university medical center , nashville , tenn , we identified six premature infants ( less than 37 weeks ' gestational age , with birth weights of 1100 to 2050 g ) with cyanotic congenital heart disease who survived the neonatal period and underwent ophthalmologic evaluation . review of their charts revealed that three of six infants developed retinopathy of prematurity ( two had grade 1 and one had grade 3 disease ) , but none required treatment . our data support the findings of other investigators that elevated arterial oxygen tension is not the sole factor leading to the development of retinopathy of prematurity . premature infants with cyanotic congenital heart disease can develop retinopathy of prematurity despite persistent hypoxemia . cyanotic premature infants should be screened for retinopathy of prematurity with the same thoroughness as other premature infants . 
diagnosis of lyme disease based on dermatologic manifestations . lyme disease , or lyme borreliosis , is an infection caused by the spirochete borrelia burgdorferi , which is most commonly transmitted to humans by a tick bite . characterized by early and late phases , lyme disease is a multisystem illness involving the skin , heart , joints , and nervous system . diagnosis is based predominantly on clinical manifestations , the most specific being dermatologic . thus , recognizing the dermatologic manifestations of lyme disease is important for diagnosis and institution of appropriate , effective therapy . approximately 75 % of patients with lyme disease present with the pathognomonic skin lesion erythema migrans , an expanding erythematous lesion . during early infection , secondary erythema migrans lesions or borrelia lymphocytoma may occur . borrelia lymphocytoma commonly presents as an erythematous nodule on the ear lobe or nipple . during late infection , acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans , an erythematous , atrophic plaque unique to lyme disease may appear ; it has been described in about 10 % of patients with lyme disease in europe . fibrotic nodules associated with acrodermatitis chronica atrophicans as well as other sclerotic and atrophic lesions , such as morphea , lichen sclerosus et atrophicus , anetoderma , and atrophoderma of pasini and pierini , have been seen late in the course of lyme disease . in a few cases , other sclerodermatous lesions , such as eosinophilic fasciitis and progressive facial hemiatrophy , have been linked to b. burgdorferi infection . we review the cutaneous lesions associated with lyme disease . 
malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the conjunctiva . malignant fibrous histiocytoma ( mfh ) of the conjunctiva is an extremely rare tumour , and only three previous cases have been reported . we describe two patients with mfh of the conjunctiva : a 58-year-old white male with epibulbar tumour who had exenteration and is alive after five years ' follow-up , and a 3 1/2 - year-old african girl with xeroderma pigmentosum and an mfh of her right eye conjunctiva , the first reported case of this association . the characteristics and the methods of diagnosis of mfh are discussed . 
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of anomalous right coronary artery . coronary angioplasty of tortuous anomalous coronary arteries can be technically challenging . we describe a successful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) of an anomalous right coronary artery after a failed previous attempt . the anatomic limitations of anomalous right coronary arteries and technical considerations for ptca are discussed . 
clinical management issues in males with sex chromosomal mosaicism and discordant phenotype/sex chromosomal patterns . the recent availability of y dna probes has made it possible to identify two forms of 46 , xx male syndrome : y dna positive and y dna negative . the y dna positive male results from a x ; y translocation with a low recurrence risk ; the y dna negative males are due to a mutation with a high recurrence risk . 46 , xx males and mosaic forms are phenotypically indistinguishable . a review of the case histories for 11 individuals indicates that affected males have highly variable genital and nongenital phenotypes . physical findings may be clearly apparent or nonexistent . with the exception of external genitalia , the basis for this variability is unknown . it may be related to differences in y chromatin expression as the result of variable inactivation of the x chromosomes , or to the existence of minor deletions or point mutations secondary to an exchange of genetic material . common and uncommon clinical problems in these individuals require evaluation and follow-up care that is provided through a cooperative , interdisciplinary approach . 
prenatal genetic counseling . continued advances in reproductive technology and prenatal diagnosis challenge genetic counselors in their provision of appropriate prenatal genetic counseling . complex information must be communicated to the couple in a nondirective but supportive manner for the couple to make an informed decision . often pertinent information must be gathered and disseminated in a short period of time as a pregnancy continues toward the point of viability , and options become limited . prenatal genetic counseling strives to keep up with the changes in reproductive technology and prenatal diagnosis in an effort to meet the needs of the patient . 
prenatal diagnosis of cystic fibrosis . since 1983 , prenatal diagnosis for cf has been available . the indirect method of microvillar intestinal enzyme analysis was first used , followed by dna linkage studies by rflps , and then aided by disequilibrium data . the past year has brought new promise with the identification of the cf gene and of a single amino acid deletion that is present in 70 % of the gene mutations . in the next several years , it is hoped that the remaining mutations will be found , thus increasing the accuracy of prenatal diagnosis by direct detection of the mutations and allowing for carrier testing of the general population . 
chromosomal mosaicism in chorionic villus sampling . the observation of multiple , chromosomally distinct cell lines in chorionic villus samples is not an unusual finding and occurs in 1 per 100 samples . this frequency is ten times greater than the level of mosaicism observed in newborn surveys and , thus , must reflect phenomenon other than true fetal mosaicism . indeed , only 23 % of mosaicism detected at cvs is confirmed in the fetus ( 2.3 per 1,000 cvs ) , which is much closer to the newborn rate ( 1 per 1,000 ) . this indicates that most mosaicism encountered in cvs is unrelated to the fetal karyotype and as such is an inaccurate prediction of the fetal genotype , the purpose of prenatal diagnosis . most of the mosaicism detected in cvs is due to confined placental mosaicism . either as a result of error-prone cell division generating an excess of abnormal cells in extraembryonic tissues or reduced selection against aneuploid cells in these tissues allowing their persistence , chorionic villi and placenta appear to show much higher levels of mosaicism than seen in fetuses . this explains the more frequent finding of multiple cell lines in cvs than in amniocentesis or liveborn individuals . the discrepancy between levels of mosaicism present in chorionic villi and fetal tissues means that most instances of mosaicism detected in cvs are not associated with a fetal abnormality and should be evaluated by further prenatal testing , i.e. , amniocentesis or fetal blood sampling . because of the frequency of chromosomal mosaicism in cvs and its attendant need for further testing , a discussion of mosaicism should be included in counseling prior to cvs . the higher frequency of discrepant results in direct cvs preparation emphasizes the prudence of delaying decision making until the results of the cvs culture have been obtained . although the observation of mosaicism clearly complicates genetic counseling and decision making , it does not appear to be associated with an adverse fetal outcome . whereas most of the mosaicism observed in cvs is the result of confined placental mosaicism , other types of discrepancies also occur . maternal cell contamination occurs in about 1 % of cases , but is easily evaluated by examining the direct preparation and analyzing chromosome polymorphism . the incidence of pseudomosaicism in cvs cultures is unclear but probably low . interestingly , cvs analysis has suggested that twinning may be a more common phenomenon at conception than reported at birth and that some discrepancies may reflect the nonviability of twins with abnormal karyotypes . chorionic villi sampling remains a viable alternative to amniocentesis for early prenatal diagnosis . an understanding of the origins of mosaicism in cvs is necessary for . 
fetal echocardiography : assessment of cardiovascular anatomy and function . echocardiography is used to assist the prenatal diagnosis group in understanding and identifying normal and abnormal structure , function , and rhythm in the fetal heart , normal variations , and change during development . detailed segmental analysis of the heart 's complex structure can be performed by experienced observers and the information used to aid in management decisions and to better understand the complex relationships of fetal cardiovascular anatomy and function , and fetal outcome . when used prudently , the technology appears to be safe to fetus and mother , but all who undergo examination will want to know of potential benefits and risks . 
lung beta-adrenoceptors in pulmonary hypertension . a study of biopsy specimens in children with congenital heart disease . characteristics of beta-adrenoceptors were analyzed using radioligand-binding techniques with 3h-dihydroalprenolol in lung specimens from 11 children with pulmonary hypertension ( median age , three years ) undergoing surgical repair of congenital heart defects and four pediatric control subjects ( median age , five years ) undergoing thoracotomy for removal of neoplasms or cysts . scatchard analysis of 3h-dha binding to lung membranes showed similar values of the dissociation constant in both groups ( kd = 0.72 + / - 0.22 nm in patients vs 1.22 + / - 0.22 nm in controls ; p = ns ) . the receptor density was significantly increased in patients in comparison with controls , with respective values of 164 + / - 19 and 95 + / - 13 fmol/mg of protein ( p less than 0.025 ) , and correlated directly with mean pulmonary arterial pressure ( r = 0.82 ; p less than 0.0005 ) . no significant relationship was observed between receptor number and pulmonary arterial medial thickness . thus , the increase in receptor density in these patients may be related to adaptative changes in cells other than vascular smooth muscle . 
changes in left ventricular diastolic filling patterns by doppler echocardiography in cystic fibrosis . the onset of cor pulmonale is a common terminal finding in patients with cystic fibrosis . since doppler echocardiography can detect changes in diastolic filling patterns prior to the onset of either systolic dysfunction or clinical symptoms , we utilized this technique to determine whether detectable changes in left ventricular diastolic filling patterns exist in patients with cystic fibrosis . among 25 patients , the proportion of left ventricular filling attributable to atrial contraction was significantly increased when compared with age-matched control individuals . when filling patterns were compared with severity of pulmonary disease , worsening pulmonary disease was directly correlated to shifts in left ventricular filling patterns . we conclude that changes in left ventricular patterns of relaxation are detectable early in the course of cystic fibrosis and that such changes are probably progressive . early detection could lead to therapeutic trials designed to improve left ventricular filling and delay the onset of overt cor pulmonale . 
coronary artery fistula formation secondary to permanent pacemaker placement . we present the findings in two patients who apparently developed a coronary artery fistula as a complication of an endocardial pacing electrode . this complication may actually be occurring more frequently than recognized because the patient may be asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic and therefore not undergo a coronary angiogram . awareness of this potentially serious complication is important and stresses the need for proper electrode placement without excess pressure on the tip . 
single nucleotide primer extension to detect genetic diseases : experimental application to hemophilia b ( factor ix ) and cystic fibrosis genes . in this report , we describe an approach to detect the presence of abnormal alleles in those genetic diseases in which frequency of occurrence of the same mutation is high ( e.g. , cystic fibrosis and sickle cell disease ) , and in others in which multiple mutations cause the disease and the sequence variation in an affected member of a given family is known ( e.g. , hemophilia b ) . initially , from each subject , the dna fragment containing the putative mutation site is amplified by the polymerase chain reaction . for each fragment two reaction mixtures are then prepared . each contains the amplified fragment , a primer ( 18-mer or longer ) whose sequence is identical to the coding sequence of the normal gene immediately flanking the 5 ' end of the mutation site , and either an alpha-32p-labeled nucleotide corresponding to the normal coding sequence at the mutation site or an alpha-32p-labeled nucleotide corresponding to the mutant sequence . single nucleotide primer extensions are then carried out and analyzed by denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and autoradiography . as predicted by the watson-crick base-pair rule , in the wild type only the normal base , in an affected member only the mutant base , and in carriers both the normal and the mutant base are incorporated into the primer . thus , an essential feature of the present methodology is that the base immediately 3 ' to the template-bound primer is one of those altered in the mutant , since in this way an extension of the primer by a single base will give an extended molecule characteristic of either the mutant or the wild type . the method is rapid and should be useful in carrier detection and prenatal diagnosis of every genetic disease with a known sequence variation . 
efficacy of fludarabine , a new adenine nucleoside analogue , in patients with prolymphocytic leukemia and the prolymphocytoid variant of chronic lymphocytic leukemia . purpose : to describe the results of fludarabine therapy in patients with prolymphocytic leukemia ( pll ) and the prolymphocytoid variant of chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll-pro ) . patients and methods : seventeen patients with a diagnosis of pll or cll-pro received fludarabine 30 mg/m2 over 30 minutes daily for 5 days every 4 weeks alone ( 12 patients ) , or with prednisone ( five patients ) . previously defined criteria for response were used . differences in response rates according to various characteristics were evaluated by chi-square test . results : three patients ( 18 % ) achieved complete remission , and three ( 18 % ) had a partial remission , for an overall response rate of 35 % . responses were durable and occurred in all involved organ sites . lower response rates were observed in patients with anemia , thrombocytopenia , advanced rai stages , and primary resistance to prior therapy . toxicities were minimal except for febrile episodes associated with therapy . conclusion : fludarabine has shown encouraging results in these patients and deserves further investigation in combination with other active agents , and in the setting of front-line therapy . 
neonatal screening for cystic fibrosis in wales and the west midlands : clinical assessment after five years of screening . screening of the newborn for cystic fibrosis by measurement of immunoreactive trypsin has been undertaken on alternate weeks in wales and the west midlands for five years since 1985 to evaluate the possible clinical benefits of early diagnosis . patients detected by screening and those diagnosed by clinical symptoms alone were assessed annually for differences in clinical , anthropometric , and biochemical variables . fifty eight infants not considered to be at risk of cystic fibrosis ( they did not present with meconium ileus and do not have a sibling with cystic fibrosis ) have been detected by screening and they have been compared with 44 children who were diagnosed clinically . this latter group includes nine children whose screening was negative but who were recognised subsequently to have cystic fibrosis . the mean age at diagnosis of the screened group was significantly lower than that of the group diagnosed clinically . excluding admissions for diagnostic tests for cystic fibrosis , the screened group spent a significantly shorter time in hospital during the first year of life . the results of all other comparisons made between the screened group and those diagnosed clinically were similar up to the age of 4 years . 
controversies in the management of gastroschisis : a study of 40 patients . forty infants with gastroschisis were referred to two paediatric surgeons during a 13 year period . overall survival was 90 % . nine patients were transferred in utero and 31 were referred postnatally . birth weights , gestational ages , and apgar scores were similar for both groups . primary closure of the defect was successfully achieved in seven ( 78 % ) patients in the prenatally transferred group compared with 17 ( 55 % ) in the postnatal group . significantly less postoperative assisted ventilation , and a trend in favour of early discharge home , were noted after prenatal transfer . problems arising during postnatal transfer may have contributed to these differences . no major differences resulting from the mode of delivery were identified . patients treated by primary closure fared significantly better than those undergoing staged repairs with prosthetic material . prospective randomised studies are required to confirm these findings . 
endotracheal resuscitation of neonates using a rebreathing bag . thirty asphyxiated neonates were resuscitated endotracheally with an anaesthetic rebreathing bag . the system was not limited either by pressure or by volume and chest movement was used as the criterion for adequate inflation . inflation pressure and flow were recorded during resuscitation , and flow was integrated to obtain volume . median mean pressure over the first 10 inflations was 40 cm h2o and this dropped during later resuscitation to 29 cm h2o . the volume delivered did not change significantly , so volume divided by pressure increased from a median of 0.18 to 0.35 ml/kg/cm h2o . fourteen infants formed part of their functional residual capacity with artificial ventilation and five with spontaneous breaths . eleven infants showed no evidence of functional residual capacity formation . in the 22 preterm infants there was a strong association between absence of functional residual capacity formation and later hyaline membrane disease that required ventilation . we suggest that pressures of more than than 30 cm h2o may be helpful during initial resuscitation and that there should be further study of devices using positive end expiratory pressure for resuscitation of preterm infants . 
association of pneumothorax and hypotension with intraventricular haemorrhage . to test the hypothesis that acute hypotension resulting from pneumothorax would be associated with severe brain injury ( grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage ) , 67 very low birthweight ( vlbw ) infants of 32 weeks ' gestation or less with respiratory distress syndrome and pneumothorax were studied . thirty six had pneumothorax associated with systemic hypotension and 31 had pneumothorax with normal blood pressure . the groups were similar in gestational age and severity of their respiratory distress syndrome . thirty two of 36 of infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension ( 89 % ) had grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage . this percentage was significantly greater than the percentage for infants with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure ( three of 31 , 10 % ) . the risk ratio for grade 3 or 4 intraventricular haemorrhage for infants with pneumothorax associated with hypotension was 9.8 compared with neonates with pneumothorax and normal blood pressure . these observations are consistent with the hypothesis that systemic hypotension and cerebral hypoperfusion are important factors leading to intraventricular haemorrhage in vlbw infants . 
increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in babies of hypertensive mothers . there is controversy over the effect of hypertension in pregnancy on the incidence of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome . we investigated the association between maternal hypertension and the incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in 268 very low birthweight babies of less than 34 weeks ' gestation . a lower incidence of respiratory distress syndrome was associated with growth retardation and membrane rupture greater than 24 hours . maternal hypertension was associated with an increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome . we used the multiple logistic regression model to control for confounding variables , as the maternal and neonatal factors associated with respiratory distress syndrome were not evenly distributed between the two groups . after adjustment for birth weight , gestational age , growth retardation , and membrane rupture greater than 24 hours , the risk of developing respiratory distress syndrome was significantly greater in babies of hypertensive mothers . significance was lost when labour before delivery and mode of delivery were taken into account . the increased incidence of respiratory distress syndrome in babies of hypertensive mothers may be due to the absence of labour before delivery because of the greater likelihood of caesarean section . 
prolonged low dose indomethacin for persistent ductus arteriosus of prematurity . a total of 121 infants who required indomethacin for persistent ductus arteriosus in liverpool and cambridge over a four year period were randomised to receive either 0.1 mg/kg daily for six days or 0.2 mg/kg every 12 hours for three doses . the groups were of similar birth weight and gestational and postnatal age , though those treated with a low dose were by chance receiving a higher percentage of oxygen at the start of treatment and there were more deaths from bronchopulmonary dysplasia in this group . of 59 infants treated with the prolonged course 53 ( 90 % ) responded initially to indomethacin compared with 48 of 62 ( 77 % ) treated conventionally -- a difference of 13 % ( 95 % confidence interval for the difference 0 to 26 % ) . of the 53 responders 11 ( 21 % ) relapsed after low dose indomethacin , whereas after the shorter course 19 of 48 ( 40 % ) relapsed . this difference was significant ( 95 % confidence intervals 3 to 37 % ) . side effects , mainly gastrointestinal haemorrhage , were similar in both groups . significantly fewer infants experienced a rise in serum creatinine or urea concentration after treatment with low dose indomethacin . a prolonged low dose course of indomethacin offers advantages over conventional treatment . 
doppler assessment of pulmonary artery pressure and extrapulmonary shunting in the acute phase of hyaline membrane disease . the natural history of pulmonary artery pressure and extrapulmonary shunting in acute hyaline membrane disease was studied by serial doppler echocardiography in 57 preterm infants , 38 with , and 19 without , hyaline membrane disease . pulmonary artery pressure was assessed non-invasively by its inverse relationship with the ratio of pulmonary artery doppler time to peak velocity : right ventricular ejection time . the mean ratio was significantly lower in the infants with hyaline membrane disease . the mean ratio for each infant with hyaline membrane disease varied widely and did not correlate with criteria of maturity or severity of disease . individual ratios correlated with arterial ph. between 60-80 hours after birth , 14 of 18 infants with hyaline membrane disease ( 78 % ) and one of 19 without ( 5 % ) had patent ductus arteriosus . left to right and bidirectional shunting at ductal and atrial level were common ; pure right to left shunting was uncommon . the mean ratio seen with bidirectional shunting was significantly lower than that seen with left to right shunting . ratios and patterns of extra pulmonary shunting were similar when the fractional inspired oxygen ( fio2 ) was greater than 0.9 compared with when it was less than 0.9 . pulmonary artery pressure is high during the acute phase of hyaline membrane disease but varies widely among infants . a few infants have extrapulmonary right to left shunting , and these infants are difficult to detect clinically . 
pelvic support osteotomy in an unusual congenital dislocation of the hip . a 52-year follow-up study . structural changes in the anatomy of the soft tissues as a result of long-standing congenital dislocation of the hip ( cdh ) are seldom described in the literature . similarly , the anatomy of a hip 52 years after a pelvic support osteotomy for cdh seems not to have been previously observed . a long-term follow-up autopsy study of bilateral pelvic support osteotomies performed in a 91-year-old autopsy subject showed unexpectedly flattened sciatic nerves . 
chromosomes in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia : karyotypic patterns in disease subtypes . to define further the clinical importance of cytogenetic analysis in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ( all ) a prospective study was performed on 139 unselected children . analyses were considered adequate in 104 , of whom 35 were normal and 69 had clonal abnormalities . abnormalities were categorised according to banded chromosome analysis as well as chromosome count . karyotypes were correlated with clinical and laboratory features at diagnosis and with survival . of the successful analyses , thirty five ( 34 % ) children had no abnormalities ; this group contained an excess of t cell disease . twenty five ( 24 % ) had a " characteristic " hyperdiploid karyotype and as a group had lower presenting white counts , a tendency to cd10 , and periodic acid schiff positivity of the blast cells and smaller spleens . none was an infant and only one was over 10 years old . seven ( 7 % ) children with t ( 9 ; 22 ) , t ( 8 ; 14 ) , or t ( 4 ; 11 ) translocations were grouped together as " specific " translocations . collectively they had a significantly worse prognosis than the remainder . nine children developed central nervous system relapse , six of whom had either t ( 4 ; 11 ) or abnormalities of 9p or 19p . a descriptive classification taking into account chromosome bonding pattern is cytogenetically more appropriate and may be more clinically useful than grouping children simply by chromosome number . as knowledge and techniques improve , the classification of cytogenetic abnormalities in all will need to be kept under frequent review . 
chemical dependency in women : a description of its effects and outcome on adequate parenting . the purpose of this article is to define chemical dependency in women as a maladaptive response to inadequate upbringing . a description of the situational and psychological variables that characterize chemically dependent women is offered as well as attributes these women lack that are necessary for effective parenting . the dysfunctional child-rearing patterns and the consequential outcome for the children are also described . suggestions for clinical intervention are provided . 
patients with lower motor spinal cord lesion : a decrease of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide , calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance p , but not neuropeptide y and somatostatin-immunoreactive nerves in the detrusor muscle of the bladder . specimens of the detrusor muscle of the bladder from four patients with lower motor neurone lesion and three patients with carcinoma of the bladder used as " controls " , were studied immunohistochemically for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide , neuropeptide y , calcitonin-gene related peptide , substance p and somatostatin . the greatest density of nerves in the bladder from " control " patients contained neuropeptide y , followed in a decreasing order by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide , calcitonin gene-related peptide , substance p and somatostatin . neuropeptide y - and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive nerves were found throughout the smooth muscle and the base of the mucosa , while calcitonin gene-related peptide - , substance p - and somatostatin-immunoreactive nerves were found predominantly in nerve bundles with a few single fibres at the base of the mucosa . vasoactive intestinal polypeptide - , neuropeptide y - and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive nerves were also located around blood vessels . in patients with lower motor neurone lesion , there was a decrease in the density of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide - , calcitonin gene-related peptide - and substance p-immunoreactive nerves , but there was little change in neuropeptide y - or somatostatin-immunoreactive nerves . urinary retention , bladder areflexia and deficient sensation may be directly linked to neuropeptide neuropathy in patients with lower motor neurone lesion . 
scalp necrosis in a neonate treated with cultured autologous keratinocytes . a neonate compromised by a stressful labor , low birth weight , anemia , seizures , and enterocolitis developed necrosis of a caput succedaneum of the calvaria . coverage with cultured autologous keratinocytes was successful and represents a treatment modality with minimal morbidity compared with conventional split-thickness skin grafts . 
bronchopulmonary and neurenteric forms of foregut anomalies . imaging for diagnosis and management . bronchopulmonary foregut malformations encompass a great variety of anomalies that may arise from abnormal differentiation of the respiratory and alimentary tracts , abnormal separation of the two systems , or abnormal development of blood supply , perhaps singly or in combination , during early embryogenesis . the pulmonary and neurenteric forms share the common features of a pulmonary parenchymal opacification and/or intrathoracic mass , with the addition of vertebral anomalies in the instance of the neurenteric malformations . plain radiographs serve as the starting point for diagnostic evaluation and sometimes are all that is needed ; more often , though , the plain film findings suggest which road to follow in further imaging . no single imaging approach can be advocated for all patients . the lesion may be found initially , for example , on prenatal sonography . ultrasonography also can establish the cystic nature of a mass and may help define vascular supply , although it can not yet be said to have supplanted angiography 's role in evaluating suspected sequestrations . for most intramediastinal or intrapulmonary masses without associated vertebral anomalies , ct will satisfactorily establish the cystic nature and should afford a reasonably confident preoperative diagnosis of bronchogenic cysts or type 1 or 2 cystic adenomatoid malformations . type 3 cystic adenomatoid malformation , because of its relatively " solid " imaging characteristics , may not be diagnosed confidently by preoperative imaging . the finding of vertebral anomalies associated with a mediastinal mass especially warrants mr imaging to define intraspinal involvement . however , the association of vertebral or rib anomalies with apparent unilateral pulmonary agenesis or hypoplasia arouses suspicion of a bronchopulmonary foregut malformation that communicates with the gastrointestinal tract , and this uncommon situation calls for a barium examination . radionuclide scintigraphy has an ancillary role in assessing foregut anomalies , but many findings from scintigraphy are relatively nonspecific and anatomic definition is poor . scintigraphy may yield supportive information in cases of sequestration that have inconclusive findings as determined by plain radiographs and ct . 
magnetic resonance imaging of congenital heart disease in the pediatric patient . current state-of-the-art mr imaging offers a high resolution evaluation of cardiac anatomy in the child with congenital heart disease . although echocardiography remains the standard initial evaluation modality , mr imaging plays a key role in supplementing this information in the pediatric thorax . although applications for this modality continue to be defined , some indications have become clear . the future of mr imaging promises better spatial resolution , faster image acquisition times , and in vivo spectroscopic capabilities . 
radiographic manifestations of congenital heart disease in the adult patient . improvements in the preoperative evaluation , surgical treatment , and postoperative care of patients with congenital cardiac disease have allowed a large patient population with congenital cardiac abnormalities to reach adolescence and adulthood . noninvasive diagnostic imaging procedures ( e.g. , plain film radiography , echocardiography , computed tomography , and magnetic resonance imaging ) are playing an increasingly important role in the evaluation and management of adults with both treated and untreated congenital cardiac disease . the role of plain film radiology is emphasized . 
radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the limbs . limb anomalies and their commonly associated organ malformations are increasingly recognized in fetal life because of the use of high resolution real-time sonography . in most instances plain radiography establishes the diagnosis of limb anomalies shortly after birth . in some neonates the diagnosis is tentative until full skeletal maturity is attained . when evaluation of the soft tissues and unmineralized cartilage or ossification center is a prerequisite to early definitive therapy , computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are the procedures of choice . 
a mutation in the second nucleotide binding fold of the cystic fibrosis gene . the discovery last year of the deletion of a phenylalanine residue at amino acid position 508 of the cystic fibrosis ( cf ) gene has meant that approximately 70 % of mutant chromosomes associated with cf can be accounted for . we report the finding of a substitution at nucleotide position 4041 of the cf gene , resulting in a change from asparagine to lysine at amino acid position 1303 . we believe that this is a disease-causing mutation , as it involves a nonconservative amino acid change and has only been found on cf chromosomes with a consistent haplotype background . the mutation was detected using direct sequencing of pcr-amplified genomic dna and was confirmed by dot hybridization to both normal and mutant allele-specific oligonucleotides . the mutation was detected on three chromosomes from four individuals but not on any normal chromosome . its presence in the heterozygous state is not correlated with the clinical status of the individual patients . 
epidermolysis bullosa simplex ( koebner ) is a keratin disorder . ultrastructural and immunohistochemical study . a skin biopsy specimen was obtained from a 1-month-old female with epidermolysis bullosa simplex ( koebner ) . histologically , an intraepidermal separation was seen and considered to be formed by cytolysis of the epidermal basal cells . ultrastructurally , the basal cells were lacking in cytoplasmic tonofilaments , and the initial change of the cytolysis seemed to be cleavages of the cytoplasm . immunohistochemically , a basal cell keratin was expressed in a suprabasal cell layer but not in the basal cell layer , and a panepithelial keratin was not detected in the basal cell layer . these findings suggest that keratin production of the epidermal cells may be delayed , resulting in a weakness of the basal cells against minor trauma to the skin . 
epidermolysis bullosa acquisita and associated symptomatic esophageal webs . epidermolysis bullosa acquisita ( eba ) is a well-characterized , subepidermal blistering disorder associated with autoimmunity to type vii collagen , which is the collagen localized to anchoring fibrils within the dermoepidermal junction of skin . although the full clinical spectrum of eba is still being defined , it is known that the clinical features of eba may be reminiscent of hereditary dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa , a scarring blistering disease of children that is commonly associated with esophageal stenosis . we describe a patient with eba who had both an acral-predominant mechanobullous disease akin to dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa and an inflammatory , widespread bullous eruption reminiscent of bullous pemphigoid in association with esophageal webs and dysphagia . although esophageal involvement is common in dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa , a review of the literature shows that this is the first bonafide case of eba with symptomatic esophageal disease . 
acquired epidermolysis bullosa with the clinical feature of brunsting-perry cicatricial bullous pemphigoid . a 56-year-old woman with the typical clinical feature of cicatricial bullous pemphigoid of the brunsting-perry type was studied . histologic examination of a lesion skin biopsy specimen demonstrated a subepidermal blister . direct immunofluorescence microscopy revealed linear deposits of igg , igm , and c3 located on both the roof and the floor of the blister . immunofluorescence antigen mapping using cryostat sections of a spontaneous blister and antisera against defined basement membrane components localized the bullous pemphigoid antigen and type iv collagen in the roof of the blister . this dermal type of blister formation was confirmed by electron microscopy , which showed the cleavage level below the lamina densa . in direct immunoelectron microscopy , granular deposits of c3 and igg were found attached to and just beneath the lamina densa in a pattern identical to the distribution of anchoring fibrils . these findings are diagnostic of acquired epidermolysis bullosa , a blistering disease that has much more clinical heterogeneity than previously suggested . 
progress of patients with pulmonary atresia after systemic to pulmonary arterial shunts . between february 1980 and june 1987 , 42 shunts were placed in 39 infants with pulmonary atresia : 33 were modified blalock-taussig shunts with polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ) and 9 were classic blalock-taussig shunts . there were four hospital deaths not related to the shunts . the remaining 35 patients were followed up for 1.6 months to 6.3 years ( mean , 24.7 + / - 18 months ) . repeat cineangiocardiographic studies revealed stenosis or distortion of the pulmonary arteries related to the site of the shunt in 11/22 patients ( 50 % ) with ptfe shunts and in 1/6 ( 17 % ) with classic blalock-taussig shunts ; the stenosis was severe in only 1 patient . mean increase in the pulmonary arterial index in the group with classic blalock-taussig shunts was 117 + / - 52 mm2/m2 ( not significant ) and in the group with ptfe shunts , 158 + / - 21 mm2/m2 ( p less than 0.001 ) . late shunt occlusion occurred in 1 patient 23 months postoperatively . thereafter , shunt patency rate remained at 94 % + / - 6 % . at the end of 1 year 81 % + / - 7 % of patients were judged to have adequate palliation , but between 2 and 3 years , only 60 % + / - 10 % . univariate analysis showed that after 2 years the ranking order for successful palliation was classic blalock-taussig , 5-mm ptfe , and 4-mm ptfe shunts , but differences did not achieve statistical significance . 
autogenous atrial tunnel for direct cavopulmonary connection in infants and small children . a technique is described for construction of an autogenous right atrial tunnel for direct cavopulmonary connection in infants and small children requiring fontan operation . advantages , in this subset of patients , of this method over others previously described using prosthetic or growth-limited materials are suggested . 
ratio of immunochemically determined amniotic fluid acetylcholinesterase to butyrylcholinesterase in the differential diagnosis of fetal abnormalities . a total of 111 amniotic fluid samples , clear or blood stained , with elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase was analysed by immunoassays specific for acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase and the acetylcholinesterase/butyrylcholinesterase-ratios determined . samples from 40 pregnancies associated with anencephaly , 47 pregnancies associated with open spina bifida or encephalocele and six pregnancies with fetal intrauterine death or miscarriage all had ratios of greater than 0.14 . all 11 pregnancies with fetal ventral wall defects had ratios less than 0.14 as had four pregnancies with normal outcome and elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase . three fetuses with both open spina bifida and ventral wall defects were associated with ratios above 0.14 . these results suggest that immunochemical determination of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase can be used to distinguish pregnancies complicated by anencephaly , open spina bifida , encephalocele and miscarriage from those with ventral wall defects and samples with false positive elevated levels of alpha-fetoprotein and acetylcholinesterase . the procedure is accurate and simple to carry out and well suited to routine use in a clinical chemistry laboratory . 
neonatal small bowel atresia , stenosis and segmental dilatation . in 8 years , 44 neonates were treated for small bowel atresia , stenosis or segmental dilatation by one surgical team . there was a single lesion in 30 infants and 14 had two or more sites of intestinal obstruction . associated gastrointestinal abnormalities were found in 23 ( 52 per cent ) patients . resection of the atresia ( s ) and primary anastomosis were performed in 34 infants and staged procedures were carried out in ten patients with complicated lesions . patients undergoing staged procedures had a higher complication rate than those having primary repair ( six out of ten and 11 out of 34 respectively ) . the overall initial survival rate was 93 per cent , rising to 100 per cent in those without associated anomalies or prenatal complications , but more than a quarter ( 27 per cent ) of survivors have long-term disabilities . 
a mutation in the dna-binding domain of the androgen receptor gene causes complete testicular feminization in a patient with receptor-positive androgen resistance . androgen resistance is associated with a wide range of quantitative and qualitative defects in the androgen receptor . however , fibroblast cultures from approximately 10 % of patients with the clinical , endocrine , and genetic features characteristic of androgen resistance express normal quantities of apparently normal androgen receptor in cultured genital skin fibroblasts ( receptor-positive androgen resistance ) . we have analyzed the androgen receptor gene of one patient ( p321 ) with receptor-positive , complete testicular feminization and detected a single nucleotide substitution at nucleotide 2006 ( g ---- c ) within the second " zinc finger " of the dna-binding domain that results in the conversion of the arginine residue at position 615 into a proline residue . introduction of this mutation into the androgen receptor cdna and transfection of the expression plasmid into eukaryotic cells lead to the synthesis of a receptor protein that displays normal binding kinetics but is inactive in functional assays of receptor activity . we conclude that substitution mutations in the dna-binding domain of the androgen receptor are one cause of " receptor-positive " androgen resistance . 
xeroderma pigmentosum lesions related to ultraviolet transmittance by clothes . xeroderma pigmentosum is associated with severe actinic degeneration of the skin . our patient with xeroderma pigmentosum showed increasing actinic damage in some areas covered by clothes . we therefore performed a complete evaluation of the patient 's exposure to ultraviolet radiation . this included transmission measurements of the patient 's clothes , glasses , and car windows . the transmission of uvb ( 280 to 320 nm ) by the clothes varied from none to 17.8 % . the transmitted uvb radiation was proportional to the clinical manifestations of xeroderma pigmentosum . the patient 's wardrobe was changed , and uva-blocking film was applied to the windows of the car and house . a decline in manifestations was seen after 18 months of improved ultraviolet protection . 
morphologic comparison of patients with mitral valve prolapse who died suddenly with patients who died from severe valvular dysfunction or other conditions . clinical and necropsy findings are described in 56 patients with mitral valve prolapse : 15 patients , aged 16 to 69 years ( mean 39 ) , died suddenly and mitral valve prolapse was the only cardiac condition found at necropsy ( hereafter called isolated mitral valve prolapse ) ; the remaining 41 patients had other conditions that were capable of being fatal . of the latter 41 patients , 7 , aged 17 to 59 years ( mean 45 ) , had associated congenital heart disease , and 34 patients , aged 17 to 70 years ( mean 52 ) , had no associated congenital cardiac abnormalities . compared with the 34 patients without associated congenital heart disease and with nonmitral valve prolapse conditions capable in themselves of being fatal , the 15 patients who died suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse were younger ( mean age 39 + / - 17 versus 52 + / - 15 years ; p = 0.01 ) , more often women ( 67 % versus 26 % ; p = 0.008 ) and had a lower frequency of mitral regurgitation ( 7 % versus 38 % ; p = 0.02 ) . the 15 patients dying suddenly with isolated mitral valve prolapse also were less likely to have evidence of ruptured chordae tendineae ( 29 % versus 67 % ; p = 0.04 ) . the frequency of increased heart weight ( 67 % versus 59 % ) , a dilated mitral valve anulus ( 80 % versus 81 % ) , a dilated tricuspid valve anulus ( 17 % versus 17 % ) , an elongated anterior mitral leaflet ( 86 % versus 54 % ) , an elongated posterior mitral leaflet ( 79 % versus 77 % ) and fibrous endocardial plaque under the posterior mitral leaflet ( 73 % versus 63 % ) was similar between the two groups . the severity of the prolapse ( mild 20 % versus 11 % ; moderate 27 % versus 58 % ; severe 53 % versus 32 % ) also was similar between the two groups . thus , persons with mitral valve prolapse dying suddenly without another recognized condition tend to be relatively young women without mitral regurgitation . 
tricuspid atresia or severe stenosis with partial common atrioventricular canal : anatomic data , clinical profile and surgical considerations . the anatomic findings in 11 cases of tricuspid atresia and in two cases of severe tricuspid stenosis , both combined with partial common atrioventricular ( av ) canal , are presented in detail . twelve cases were documented by postmortem examination and the diagnosis was confirmed by echocardiography and surgical observation in the one living patient . clinical data available in nine cases and cardiac catheterization data obtained in eight are included in this report . in three cases ( 23 % ) -- two with tricuspid atresia and one with extreme tricuspid stenosis -- the tricuspid valve and right ventricle exhibited characteristics seen in ebstein 's anomaly . in all 13 cases , the great arteries were normally related . the ventricular septal defect ( s ) in 10 ( 83 % ) of the 12 postmortem cases rapidly became smaller and this resulted in marked diminution of the pulmonary blood flow and severe hypoxia . only three of the eight patients with available cardiac catheterization and angiocardiographic data showed the scooped-out appearance of the left ventricular septal surface characteristic of av canal defects . by contrast , two-dimensional echocardiography , available in the three most recent cases , accurately demonstrated all the defects present and represents the diagnostic method of choice . early surgical intervention to establish a systemic to pulmonary artery anastomosis is essential for survival . more definitive surgical treatment can be achieved later by an atriopulmonary or cavopulmonary anastomosis with or without replacement of the cleft and often regurgitant mitral valve . the one living patient exemplifies this approach . this is the largest series of this unusual type of tricuspid atresia reported to date . 
aortico-left ventricular tunnel : long-term outcome after surgical repair . over a 14 year period , four children ( three male , one female ) underwent surgical correction of an aortico-left ventricular tunnel . all presented in infancy ( age range 5 days to 9 months ) . the presenting feature was a systolic and diastolic murmur in all , one of whom developed heart failure within 2 weeks of presentation . in the first two patients , the echocardiographic findings were inconclusive and the diagnosis was confirmed at cardiac catheterization ( at 10 and 23 months of age , respectively ) ; the other two were diagnosed echocardiographically by two-dimensional and doppler color flow imaging . all four patients underwent surgery by patch closure of the aortic end of the tunnel ( three patients ) or direct suture closure ( one patient ) and there were no deaths . the mean age at operation was 11 months . during a mean follow-up period of 71 months ( range 2 to 157 ) , three patients have clinical and echocardiographic evidence of trivial aortic valve regurgitation , which was noted in the immediate postoperative period in one and at early ( less than 6 months ) follow-up study in the other two . all are symptom-free , are taking no medications and are growing and developing normally . aortico-left ventricular tunnel can be accurately diagnosed by echocardiography . in patients presenting in infancy , echocardiography also provides the necessary morphologic information to enable surgical correction without angiography . early operation is associated with an excellent outcome , whereas repair at a later age is associated with a high incidence of residual aortic regurgitation requiring further surgery . 
neuronal ceroid-lipofuscinosis : preferential metabolic alterations in thalamus and posterior association cortex demonstrated by pet . regional brain glucose utilisation was investigated with positron emission tomography ( pet ) and fluorodeoxyglucose ( fdg ) in four siblings with neuronal ceroid-lipofuscinosis . a consistent pattern was found , namely a decrease of glucose utilisation in all grey structures but more marked at the level of the thalamus and posterior association cortex . the severity of metabolic anomalies was correlated with the degree of clinical impairment and with disease duration ; they were the most severe in the oldest patient , who was also the most affected clinically , intermediate in two others , and minimal in the subject with the shortest period of development of the disease . these observations suggest that pet is useful for the definition of anatomical targets of metabolic diseases and for the investigation of their pathophysiology . 
prune belly syndrome in females : a triad of abdominal musculature deficiency and anomalies of the urinary and genital systems . we describe seven female patients with deficient abdominal wall musculature and urinary tract and genital anomalies that represent the female equivalent of the prune belly syndrome . urethral atresia , uterine duplication , and anorectal anomalies occurred frequently . the perinatal mortality rate was high ; of the four surviving patients , renal failure developed in two and renal transplantation was required . the analysis of these cases suggests that urethral obstruction is an important factor contributing to the development of the prune belly syndrome in females . 
changes in cardiac function during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for persistent pulmonary hypertension in the newborn infant . the effects of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) on cardiac function and its determinants ( preload , afterload , contractility , and heart rate ) are largely unknown , although some evidence exists that function may decrease . to determine whether cardiac function decreases and what changes in the determinants take place during and after ecmo , we observed 26 newborn infants with persistent pulmonary hypertension . serial echocardiograms were performed before ecmo , during maximum cardiopulmonary bypass , and after ecmo . cardiac function was assessed by using standard echographic ejection phase indices ( shortening fraction and cardiac output ) . heart rate , preload ( left ventricular end-diastolic dimension and area ) , afterload ( left ventricular end-systolic wall stress ) , and contractility ( relationship between velocity of circumferential fiber shortening and wall stress ) were also measured . ejection phase indices significantly decreased during ecmo ( shortening fraction 33 % to 25 % , cardiac output 205 to 113 ml/kg/min ; p less than 0.05 ) and returned to normal after ecmo ( shortening fraction 26 % to 34 % , cardiac output 107 to 240 ml/kg/per minute ; p less than 0.05 ) . heart rate also significantly decreased during ecmo ( 158 to 118 beats/min ; p less than 0.05 ) . preload significantly increased after ecmo ( left ventricular end-diastolic dimension 1.4 to 1.6 cm , left ventricular end-diastolic area 1.9 to 2.2 cm2 ; p less than 0.05 ) . there were no significant changes in contractility and afterload during any study period . we conclude that , although left ventricular ejection phase indices and heart rate decreased during ecmo , these changes were transient and resolved when bypass was terminated . contractility and afterload did not appear affected by bypass . 
critical aortic stenosis in early infancy . anatomic and echocardiographic substrates of successful open valvotomy . to establish noninvasive criteria by which to manage infants with critical aortic stenosis , we examined 20 heart specimens from infants under 3 months of age and reviewed the clinical course and real time echocardiograms of 20 patients in the same age group . all 20 infants underwent open valvotomy , and in five cases both echocardiographic and postmortem measurements were available for the same heart . the anatomic specimens showed a spectrum of valvular , ventricular , and vascular abnormalities that could be accurately identified by echocardiography . a small left ventricular cavity was usually associated with a narrow ventriculoarterial junction , small ascending aorta , and narrow subaortic region . in these hearts , the mitral valve had a single or grossly hypoplastic papillary muscle with short or " arcuate " tendinous cords . a dilated left ventricular cavity had wider inflow and outflow orifices , and the tension apparatus of the mitral valve was either normal or supported by hypertrophic papillary muscles , at the other end of the spectrum . the survivors ( n = 15 ) and nonsurvivors ( n = 5 ) of open valvotomy showed significant differences in the echocardiographic dimensions of the left ventricle ( p less than 0.005 ) , the subaortic region ( p less than 0.05 ) , the ventriculoaortic junction ( p less than 0.05 ) , the ascending aorta ( p less than 0.005 ) , and the mitral valve orifice ( p less than 0.001 ) . moreover , the papillary muscle of the mitral valve was invariably single or hypoplastic with short tendinous cords in the early nonsurvivors . infants with unfavorable cardiac anatomy tended to present earlier ( p less than 0.05 ) and to have a lower systemic blood pressure ( p less than 0.05 ) , and they required prostaglandin e2 to maintain right ventricular support of the circulation through a persistent arterial duct . this study suggests that patients with a small left ventricle ( echocardiographic inflow dimension less than 25 mm ) , a narrow ventriculoaortic junction ( less than 5 mm ) , and a small mitral valve orifice ( less than 9 mm ) will not achieve a satisfactory surgical result from aortic valvotomy . such patients should be considered for cardiac transplantation or the norwood-type of palliation for hypoplastic left heart syndrome . 
maternal age and birth defects : a population study . since more and more women in developed countries are delaying childbearing to an older age , it is important to find out whether birth defects , other than those resulting from chromosomal anomalies , are related to maternal age . we have studied all 26,859 children with birth defects of unknown aetiology identified among 576,815 consecutive livebirths in british columbia . all these cases ' records were linked with provincial birth records to allow determination of maternal age at birth . we excluded children with chromosomal anomalies and those with other birth defects of known aetiology . only 3 of the 43 birth defect categories studied showed significant maternal-age-specific trends : there were decreasing linear trends with maternal age for patent ductus arteriosus ( chi 2 = 36.65 , 1 df , p less than 0.01 ) and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis ( chi 2 = 4.90 , 1 df , p less than 0.05 ) and a bell-shaped curve ( risk increasing to maternal age 30 then falling ) for congenital dislocatable hip/hip click . the findings from this population-based analysis of no association between the incidence of birth defects of unknown aetiology and advancing maternal age should be reassuring to healthy women who opt to delay childbearing . 
severity of cystic fibrosis in patients homozygous and heterozygous for delta f508 mutation . to assess the relation between genotype and severity of disease in cystic fibrosis ( cf ) the frequencies and extent of several features of its phenotypic expression were investigated in the 235 patients who attend the danish cf centre . 14 patients who attend irregularly and 3 who do not carry the delta f508 mutation at all were excluded . the case-reports of the remaining 218 patients ( aged 4 months to 41 years ) were carefully evaluated , and they were all analysed for the delta f508 mutation . 172 ( 79 % ) were homozygous for delta f508 and 46 ( 20 % ) were heterozygous . the mutation therefore occurs on 89 % of the chromosomes analysed . there were no significant differences between the homozygous and heterozygous groups in the proportions with meconium ileus at birth , liver involvement , or chronic pseudomonas aeruginosa infection . however , significantly more of the homozygous patients had onset of symptoms before the age of 6 months ( p less than 0.025 ) ; they were significantly younger at diagnosis ( p = 0.013 ) and centre referral ( p = 0.006 ) ; they required greater pancreatic enzyme substitution ( p = 0.0002 ) and had poorer lung function ; and the calculated yearly incidence of chronic ps aeruginosa infection and yearly mortality rates were greater than in heterozygous patients ( p = 0.0001 ) . 
a comparison of surfactant as immediate prophylaxis and as rescue therapy in newborns of less than 30 weeks ' gestation background . exogenous pulmonary surfactants are administered into the trachea either to prevent respiratory distress syndrome in premature infants or to treat it . in a randomized , multicenter trial , we compared the results of surfactant therapy initiated as prophylaxis with the results of rescue therapy with surfactant . methods . before birth , 479 infants with an estimated gestational age of less than 30 weeks were randomly assigned to receive surfactant as prophylaxis ( n = 235 ) or rescue therapy ( n = 244 ) . the infants in the prophylaxis group received a 90-mg intratracheal dose of an exogenous calf-lung surfactant extract at the time of delivery , whereas the infants in the rescue-therapy group received 90 mg of the surfactant several hours after delivery if the fractional inspiratory oxygen concentration was at least 0.40 or if the mean airway pressure was at least 0.686 kpa ( 7 cm of water ) , or both . infants in both groups received additional doses of surfactant at intervals of 12 to 24 hours if these criteria were met . results . the proportion of infants surviving until discharge to their homes was significantly higher in the prophylaxis group than in the rescue-therapy group ( 88 vs. 80 percent , p = 0.028 ) . this difference was due primarily to the longer survival of very premature infants ( less than or equal to 26 weeks ' gestation ) in the prophylaxis group than in the rescue-therapy group ( 75 vs. 54 percent , p = 0.006 ) . according to proportional-hazards regression analysis , the distribution of survival times was better for all infants in the prophylaxis group ( p = 0.007 ) and for the subgroup of infants in the prophylaxis group who were delivered at 26 weeks ' gestation or earlier ( p = 0.0048 ) . infants in the prophylaxis group who were delivered at 26 weeks ' gestation or earlier had a lower incidence of pneumothorax than similar infants in the rescue-therapy group ( 7 vs. 18 percent , p = 0.03 ) . conclusions . we found a significant advantage to the administration of the initial dose of surfactant as prophylaxis rather than as rescue therapy in very premature infants . 
activation of chloride channels in normal and cystic fibrosis airway epithelial cells by multifunctional calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase . cystic fibrosis is associated with defective regulation of apical membrane chloride channels in airway epithelial cells . these channels in normal cells are activated by cyclic amp-dependent protein kinase and protein kinase c. in cystic fibrosis these kinases fail to activate otherwise normal cl - channels . but cl - flux in cystic fibrosis cells , as in normal cells , can be activated by raising intracellular ca2 + ( refs 5-10 ) . we report here whole-cell patch clamp studies of normal and cystic fibrosis-derived airway epithelial cells showing that cl - channel activation by ca2 + is mediated by multifunctional ca2 + / calmodulin-dependent protein kinase . we find that intracellular application of activated kinase and atp activates a cl - current similar to that activated by a ca2 + ionophore , that peptide inhibitors of either the kinase or calmodulin block ca2 ( + ) - dependent activation of cl - channels , and that a peptide inhibitor of protein kinase c does not block ca2 ( + ) - dependent activation . ca2 + / calmodulin activation of cl - channels presents a pathway with therapeutic potential for circumventing defective regulation of cl - channels in cystic fibrosis . 
spatially localized magnetic resonance spectroscopy of the brains of normal and asphyxiated newborns . phase-modulated rotating frame imaging is a modification of magnetic resonance spectroscopy , which uses a linear radiofrequency field gradient to obtain spatially localized biochemical information . phase-modulated rotating frame imaging was used to study regional cerebral energy metabolism in the brains of 9 normal newborns and 25 newborns after birth asphyxia . relative concentrations of phosphorus-containing metabolites and intracellular ph were determined for brain tissue at three specified depths below the brain surface for all neonates . wide variations in metabolite ratios were seen among normal neonates , and considerable metabolic heterogeneity was demonstrated in individual neonates by depth-resolved spectroscopy . asphyxiated neonates with severe hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy and a poor neurodevelopmental outcome showed the expected rise in inorganic orthophosphate and fall in phosphocreatine concentrations in both global and spatially localized spectra . phase-modulated rotating frame imaging showed that metabolic derangement was less in superficial than in deeper brain tissue . the inorganic orthophosphate-adenosine triphosphate ratio from 1 to 2 cm below the brain surface was more accurate than any global metabolite ratio for the identification of neonates with a poor short-term outcome . these data are consistent with the known vulnerability of subcortical brain tissue to hypoxic-ischemic injury in the full-term neonate . 
neuropsychological outcome of pediatric liver transplantation . children with end-stage liver disease who undergo liver transplantation may have unrecognized neuropsychological and academic deficits , for which remediation programs may be available . intellectual , academic , and neuropsychological measures of 28 pediatric patients who had received successful liver transplantation at least 1 year previously were compared with those of 18 patients with cystic fibrosis ( to control for effects of growth retardation and chronic illness ) matched for age , age at diagnosis , physical growth , and parents ' socioeconomic status . liver transplant patients had significantly lower scores on nonverbal intelligence tests ( mean + / - sd for liver transplant vs cystic fibrosis patients : 89.1 + / - 19.1 vs 105.8 + / - 17.6 ) , lower academic achievement , and lower zeta scores for age in the areas of learning and memory ( -0.68 + / - 1.09 vs 0.19 + / - 1.24 ) , abstraction and concept formation ( -1.73 + / - 1.58 vs -0.79 + / - 1.37 ) , visual-spatial function ( -0.66 + / - 1.09 vs 0.10 + / - 0.69 ) , and motor function ( -0.13 + / - 0.85 vs 0.36 + / - 0.57 ) . no differences were found on tests of verbal intelligence , or in alertness and concentration , perceptual-motor , and sensory-perceptual areas . cyclosporine levels were found to correlate positively with motor speed ( r = .41 , p less than .05 ) . thorough psycho-educational and neuropsychological evaluations should be considered for pediatric patients who receive liver transplantation to allow these children to maximize their potential . 
bovine surfactant replacement therapy in neonates of less than 30 weeks ' gestation : a randomized controlled trial of prophylaxis versus treatment . the influence of the timing of surfactant replacement therapy for the treatment of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome was evaluated in a study of 182 neonates of less than 30 weeks ' gestation who were randomly assigned prior to delivery to one of three study groups : control ( dummy instillation of air given at birth ) , early surfactant ( surfactant given at birth ) , or late surfactant ( surfactant given at less than 6 hours of age ) . subjects in the late surfactant group could avoid treatment if they had a clear chest roentgenogram and required no supplemental oxygen at a mean airway pressure of less than 7 cm of water . all treated neonates were eligible to receive up to three additional doses during the first 5 days of life . the three groups were comparable with respect to birth weight , gestational age , and other perinatal parameters with the exception of a lower cord arterial ph and 1-minute apgar score in the early surfactant group . of the 60 neonates randomly assigned to late treatment , 29 ( 48 % ) were deemed surfactant sufficient and thereby avoided treatment ; the other 31 received their first dose at a mean age of 2.9 hours . there was a significant improvement in gas exchange during the first week of life in both surfactant groups compared with the control group , reflected by differences in fraction of inspired oxygen , arterial/alveolar po2 , and ventilation index ( peak pressure x rate on the ventilator ) ( p less than .001 ) . surfactant therapy also resulted in a lower incidence of pulmonary air leak and severe chronic lung disease ( defined as requirement for respiratory support beyond 36 weeks post-conceptional age ) . there were no differences between early and late surfactant groups in any of these parameters . the only statistically significant difference between the surfactant groups was that the early group had a higher incidence of mild chronic lung disease ( respiratory support beyond 28 days of age ) than the late treatment group ( p less than .005 ) . neonates in the late treatment group were extubated earlier and had a shorter neonatal intensive care unit stay than control neonates ( p less than .05 ) , whereas those in the early group were not significantly different from control neonates in these parameters . it is concluded that replacement therapy with bovine lung surfactant extract in neonates of less than 30 weeks ' gestation results in decreased oxygen and ventilatory requirements during the first week of life and a lower incidence of pulmonary air leak and severe chronic lung disease . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
congenital orthopedic anomalies and their impact on the family . a baby born with a congenital limb deficiency presents a challenge to parents and health care professionals . lack of information about treatment options can exacerbate the crisis for the family . the treatment modalities available to the family generally depend on the child 's specific limb deficiency or deficiencies . surgery to reconstruct the deficiency is not a workable option for many patients because of abnormal joints and soft tissues . amputation may be recommended for patients whose deficiency is difficult or impossible to manage prosthetically . limb lengthening is an option only for patients whose bones are smaller than normal . prosthetics are the most widely used treatment modality because they immediately equalize limb lengths and improve function . when a baby is born with a congenital limb deficiency , the initial response of the parents is shock and denial . in adjusting to their newborn , they must first mourn the loss of the baby they expected . once the adjustment process begins , specific information about the limb deficiency and the treatment options should be available . family adjustment to the child is a continual process . as the child grows , management strategies need to change to adjust to the child 's changing needs . with appropriate and timely health care and family intervention , a child with a congenital limb deficiency can be a happy , successful person . 
pediatric cardiac surgery guided by echocardiography . established indications and new trends . cardiac surgery in 602 children was not preceded by cardiac catheterization , the diagnosis being based on clinical findings and two-dimensional and doppler echocardiography . in the 355 operations without cardiopulmonary bypass there were nine major and seven minor diagnostic errors ( 2.5 % and 2 % ) . among the 247 cases with open-heart surgery there were no major and eight ( 3.2 % ) minor errors . the malformations most suitable for nonbypass surgery without catheterization seem to be those with reduced pulmonary blood flow requiring systemic-pulmonary artery shunt , aortic coarctation and patent ductus arteriosus . for open-heart surgery without invasive investigation , atrial septal defect , partial atrioventricular canal , aortic and pulmonary stenosis , cardiac tumor and isolated valve disorder are ' classic ' candidates . recent experience indicated that selected cases of complete atrioventricular canal , tetralogy of fallot , truncus arteriosus , total anomalous pulmonary venous connection and transposition of the great arteries may safely undergo primary repair without cardiac catheterization . because of its diagnostic potentialities , pediatric cardiac surgeons must become familiar with echocardiography . 
benign cystic teratoma manifested as an umbilical hernia . we have reported a case of dermoid tumor manifested as an umbilical hernia . resection led to complete recovery . 
the management of retinal detachments associated with choroidal colobomas by vitreous surgery . we used vitreous surgery to treat seven patients ( eight eyes ) with complicated retinal detachments associated with choroidal colobomas . all eyes had large choroidal colobomas and no evidence of peripheral retinal breaks . small , atrophic breaks were detected in five of the eyes and were located in the base of the coloboma in four of the five eyes . adjunctive surgical techniques were necessary and included cyanoacrylate retinopexy in four eyes , silicone oil tamponade in five eyes , and retinectomy in two eyes . retinal reattachment was ultimately attained in seven of the eight eyes . the number of surgical procedures ranged from one to five , with an average of three . postoperative visual acuity of the eyes that underwent anatomically successful procedures ranged from 20/100 to light perception . proliferative vitreoretinopathy was the most frequent cause of redetachment , occurring in six of the eight eyes . 
