epidemiology in bone and joint infection . the studies of community-acquired infection indicate the importance of the environment in which the host-pathogen interaction takes place . whereas the high incidence rates at the extremes of life are compatible with a hypothesis of diminished immune competence , the varying rates of acute osteomyelitis during growth , and its predominantly metaphyseal site , suggest that further studies of the molecular biology of this rather specific infection would be revealing . molecular biology has a role , too , in improving understanding of the epidemiology of resistance and pathogenicity in hospital-acquired infections . although antibiotic prescription and other medical practices influence the environment profoundly , we should remember that we may be experiencing long-term trends beyond our present understanding . as more and more reconstructive bone and joint surgery is carried out , careful observational epidemiology remains a vital tool . 
animal models of osteomyelitis . knowledge , hypothesis , and speculation . each animal model has provided insights . particularly important was the considerable resistance of bone to infection without manipulation ( no morrhuate , fracture , rod , wax , or prosthesis ) . such perturbations allow bone infection with much smaller inocula . typical inocula decreases are 1000 to 10,000 fold . staphylococci may have a selective advantage in bone because of specialized or tropic binding , perhaps to cartilage or collagen . osteoclast-induced resorption of hydroxyapatite might explain the distribution of some osteomyelitis . increased osteoclast activity could link the susceptible metaphyseal regions , the repetitively traumatized diabetic foot , a history of blunt bone trauma , fracture , and perhaps even nearby soft tissue infection . diagnosis remains difficult ; gallium-67 and indium111 labeled wbc probably deserve additional investigation . therapeutic failures in the rabbit and rat models mirror clinical experience . clindamycin , rifampin , and quinolones are promising . neither systemic nor local antimicrobial prophylaxis is well studied yet . 
musculoskeletal infection , microbial adhesion , and antibiotic resistance . osteomyelitis and intra-articular infection are septic diseases that present pathogenic features characteristic of molecular mechanisms involving adhesion to substrata . in this review , mechanisms of microbial adhesion to bone and cartilage as substrata are presented and related to host tissue response and to antibiotic treatment . 
the diabetic foot . soft tissue and bone infection . diabetic patients , as a consequence of various neurologic , vascular , and metabolic perturbations , are at high risk for developing infections of the soft tissue and bones of the feet . the microbial etiology of soft tissue in infections is best determined by cultures of a tissue curetting or aspiration , rather than a swab . aerobic gram-positive cocci are the major pathogens in diabetic foot infections ; these may be the sole isolate ( s ) in acute uncomplicated infections , but they are usually accompanied by aerobic gram-negative bacilli or anaerobes in chronic or previously treated infections . carefully selected patients with mild infections can be treated as outpatients with oral antibiotics , but others require hospitalization and broad-spectrum parenteral antibiotics . bone infections are frequently diagnosed on the basis of roentgenographs and nuclear medicine scans , but these methods are often inaccurate , and bone cultures should be obtained whenever possible . 
hyperbaric oxygen as adjunctive therapy for osteomyelitis . mechanistically , hyperbaric oxygen ( hbo ) appears useful for the treatment of osteomyelitis . hbo increases the oxygen tension in infected tissue , including bone . an adequate oxygen tension is necessary for oxygen-dependent killing of organisms by the polymorphonuclear leukocytes and for fibroblast activity leading to angiogenesis and wound healing . hbo has a direct bacteriocidal or bacteriostatic effect on anaerobic organisms . in addition , hbo augments the killing of pseudomonas aeruginosa by the aminoglycoside -- tobramycin . at the university of texas medical branch at galveston , adjunctive hbo is used for the cierny mader stage 3b and 4b osteomyelitis . 
diagnostic imaging of osteomyelitis . there are many imaging procedures for diagnosing osteomyelitis , each with unique strengths and weaknesses . plain radiographs are inexpensive and can be very accurate but may provide a delayed diagnosis . computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are both excellent at differentiating soft tissue infection from osteomyelitis . computed tomography , magnetic resonance imaging , and bone scans are accurate diagnostic tools for use when the bone has not be violated by surgery , trauma , or other structural alterations . when such changes are present , an indium-111 leukocyte or indium-111 polyclonal antibody study may be necessary for accurate diagnosis . 
antibiotic therapy for osteomyelitis . antibiotic therapy for osteomyelitis has dramatically changed within the past twenty years . the diagnostic criteria for osteomyelitis remain confusing to practicing physicians . bone biopsy culture is now the standard for determining specific antimicrobial therapy . many of the newest and most potent antimicrobials are now used to treat the increasingly broad bacterial spectrum of etiologies of osteomyelitis . there are tremendous economic incentives for outpatient and/or oral therapy . the third-generation cephalosporins and the new fluoroquinolones have replaced older , more toxic regimens , especially those containing aminoglycoside used to treat gram-negative osteomyelitis due to susceptible organisms . 
surgical approaches in osteomyelitis . use of laser doppler flowmetry to determine nonviable bone . the surgical management of osteomyelitis includes radical debridement on nonviable bone . laser doppler flowmetry is a method for directly assessing the functional microcirculation in bone . the early results of the use of this technique as a surgical adjunct in the management of osteomyelitis are promising . 
acute osteomyelitis in children . although relatively uncommon , osteomyelitis is an important disease because of the potential for chronicity or permanent sequelae . diagnostic methods , the spectrum of the disease , and clinical situations that merit special consideration are reviewed in this article . 
infectious arthritis . any patient who presents with an acute monarticular arthritis , especially a new asymmetric effusion with underlying joint disease , should be suspected of having a bacterial process . because synovial fluid findings ( leukocyte counts and glucose ) may not be predictive of infection , bacteriologic analysis by smear and culture is necessary in the evaluation of any new synovial effusion . a chronic monarticular process is highly likely to be infectious also , but mycobacterial or fungal etiologies frequently require appropriate culture of synovial tissue in addition to processing fluid . acute polyarticular syndromes are seen as manifestations of disseminated gonococcal infections ( dgi ) and certain viral infections in adults . diagnostic clues include historic and physical findings ( exposure history and type of rash ) . the major pathogen in adults remains staphylococcus aureus , so initial therapy is directed at this organism unless urinary tract infection is present also . proper recommended therapy for dgi is ceftriaxone because penicillin-resistant strains are present in many urban centers . early recognition and treatment of bacterial arthritis may prevent poor outcome , particularly in elderly patients or those with underlying joint diseases . for chronic mycobacterial or fungal infections , surgery may need to be combined with medical management . 
vertebral osteomyelitis . vertebral osteomyelitis can be caused by a variety of microorganisms . the hematogenous pyogenic form is characteristically a disease of people over age 50 , predominantly in the male population , and most frequently caused by s. aureus . in ivdas , however , younger patients and a heavier predominance of males are seen , and p. aeruginosa is one of the most commonly seen pathogens . the disease is generally monomicrobial , unless it is secondary to a contiguous process such as a pressure sore , in which polymicrobial infection with participation of anaerobes is the general rule . lumbar , greater than thoracic , greater than cervical involvement is the rule in the general population , but cervical spine involvement is frequently seen more often than thoracic involvement in ivdas . diabetic patients are over-represented among patients with vertebral osteomyelitis , and they also have a tendency for higher morbidity and mortality . simultaneous involvement of adjacent vertebral end plates and the intervening disk is the general rule . the vertebrae are generally involved , and the posterior elements of the spine are involved infrequently . posterior element involvement is seen more commonly in actinomycosis , coccidioidomycosis , and neoplasms . newer diagnostic modalities , such as ct , mri , and radionuclide scans , may detect the disease earlier than conventional radiographs . immunobilization by bed rest and appropriate antimicrobial therapy are generally sufficient in the therapy of pyogenic , as well as tuberculous , vertebral osteomyelitis . in selected circumstances , such as in the presence of marked instability of the spine , the presence of new neurologic deficits , or with progression of previous neurologic deficits , surgical intervention may be necessary . with prompt diagnosis and proper management , the prognosis should generally be good . 
zygomatic approach to skull-base lesions . a modification of the preauricular skull-base approach is described . after sectioning and downward displacement of the zygomatic arch , the coronoid process of the mandible is dissected and sectioned at its base . the temporal muscle , with its coronoid insertion , is then retracted upward . this approach provides direct and unobstructed access to the temporal and infratemporal fossae . adequate vascularity of the temporal muscle is maintained . the exposure encompasses the internal carotid artery in the neck for vascular control . extensive reconstruction is eliminated . the described technique was used in seven patients with lesions of the skull base . there was no operative mortality , and morbidity consisted of temporary restriction of mandibular opening in two patients . 
postlaminectomy ossified extradural pseudocyst . case report . a large ossified spurious meningocele accompanied by recurrent lumbar disc herniation occurred 7 years after posterior intervention for laminectomy and discectomy in a 53-year-old man . the cyst wall , histologically composed of mature bone tissue , was sparsely covered with connective tissue and lined with fibrocyte - or fibroblast-like cells on the inside . the ossified pseudocyst was presumed to have originated from a minute defect in the dura mater which occurred at the time of the first operation . 
a simple technique of posterior wiring in traumatic instability of the mid to lower cervical spine . technical note . wiring without bone fusion in the treatment of traumatic cervical instability is an uncommon procedure . the authors describe a semirigid wiring technique for stabilizing the acute injured movement segment in the mid and lower cervical spine . results are briefly discussed . 
adaptive and remodeling changes in the fractured mandibular condyle after open reduction using the kirschner pin . six cases of fracture of the mandibular condyloid process in which there was osteosynthesis using the kirschner pin were followed radiographically for more than 1 year . tracings were made to analyze the remodeling process . the clinical course of all patients was satisfactory , without functional disturbance or asymmetries of the mandible . 
treatment of the retained permanent molar . the effect of five different treatments for retained permanent molars was evaluated in 59 patients to develop a rational guideline for adequate therapy . the results showed that a prosthetic buildup is the proper treatment if retention develops after the growth spurt , because in these cases the extent of infraocclusion is slight and relatively stable . if retention develops before the growth spurt , immediate removal of the retained molar followed by orthodontic treatment is the way to maximal success . when retention develops during the growth spurt , the tooth affected has to be observed at 6-month intervals . in such a case , no active treatment is indicated if the neighboring teeth show no tilting and the extent of infraocclusion is minor and stable . in all other cases , the teeth affected have to be removed , followed by orthodontic closure of the edentulous space . finally , all patients must be screened regularly , because in this investigation , new cases of retention were observed relatively frequently . 
management of delayed union and nonunion of maxillary osteotomies . delayed union and nonunion of maxillary osteotomies are unusual , but have been seen with a variety of surgical moves . management of these problems can be divided into early and late therapy . four cases are presented illustrating some of these methods of treatment . 
composite temporalis pedicle flap as an interpositional graft in temporomandibular joint arthroplasty : a preliminary report . fifteen temporomandibular joint patients were evaluated preoperatively and postoperatively to evaluate the effectiveness of a composite ( fascia , muscle and periosteum ) temporalis pedicle flap as an interpositional disc replacement . a modified craniomandibular index ( cmi ) and symptom severity index ( ssi ) were used to assess clinical and subjective symptoms . eighteen months postoperatively there was a significant reduction in the cm and ss indices ( p less than .001 ) , with significant clinical improvement of the mandibular range of motion ( p less than .05 ) . however , a significant reduction of translation ( p less than .01 ) was evident indicating that the increased mandibular opening was owing to a compensatory rotational movement . this study indicates that the composite temporalis pedicle flap is a good autogenous tissue for the reconstruction of the temporomandibular joint . 
tissue response to composite ceramic hydroxyapatite/demineralized bone implants . this study evaluated the tissue reactions to two materials : ceramic hydroxyapatite ( cha ) , and a composite material of demineralized bone powder ( dbp ) and cha ( ratio of 4:1 ) in a collagen vehicle . the materials were tested in a subcutaneous pocket , a mandibular onlay , and in a calvarial onlay model . specimens were evaluated histologically at 7 , 10 , 14 , and 21 days postimplantation . ceramic hydroxyapatite , implanted subcutaneously , elicited a fibrous response with minimal inflammation , but did not induce bone formation . in specimens of subcutaneously implanted composite material , induced bone was evident in association with the dbp . in cha onlay specimens , there was a small amount of reactive bone extending from the host bone into the implant . in composite onlays , bone filled the entire body of the implant . the results of this study indicate that cha particles were not osteoinductive in heterotopic sites and that osteoconductive ingrowth was minimal in onlays . bone was induced by dbp even when mixed with cha particles and implanted in subcutaneous and intraosseous sites . it was concluded that composite implants may provide a means of combining the osteoinductive properties of dbp with the bulk and structural support of osteoconductive cha particles . 
bone response to hydroxyapatite particles of different shapes in rabbit tibia . four holes drilled in rabbit tibia were filled with different commercial hydroxyapatite products . all particles caused a mild inflammatory reaction , which disappeared in 2 months . the line between the new and original bone was visible even after 6 months . no differences in healing pattern were discovered for the various products . when bone cavities are filled with hydroxyapatite particles , the shape of the particles does not seem to affect the healing process . 
invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the mandible presenting as a chronic osteomyelitis : report of a case . a case of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the mandible initially thought to be chronic osteomyelitis is reviewed . discussion of the origin of the tumor and several imaging techniques used for differentiating maxillofacial infection from neoplasm are discussed . the difficulty of diagnosis of chronic painful maxillofacial lesions illustrates the need for a high degree of suspicion concerning any inflammatory lesion not responding to appropriate therapy . accurate diagnosis and treatment of such lesions most often necessitates microscopic examination . 
assessment of proplast-teflon disc replacements [ published erratum appears in j oral maxillofac surg 1991 feb ; 49 ( 2 ) :220 ] this retrospective study reports the findings in the follow-up of 31 temporomandibular joints in which proplast-teflon ( vitek inc , houston , tx ) replacements were used . among the problems noted were pain , malocclusion , restricted opening , and degenerative changes in the condyle and fossa . 
a protocol for management of temporomandibular joint ankylosis . a management protocol for temporomandibular joint ( tmj ) ankylosis consisting of 1 ) aggressive resection , 2 ) ipsilateral coronoidectomy , 3 ) contralateral coronoidectomy when necessary , 4 ) lining of the tmj with temporalis fascia or cartilage , 5 ) reconstruction of the ramus with a costochondral graft , 6 ) rigid fixation , and 7 ) early mobilization and aggressive physiotherapy is presented . the protocol was retrospectively evaluated in the first 14 patients ( 18 involved tmjs ) treated and followed postoperatively for at least 1 year . the facial asymmetries present in all unilateral cases remained corrected . the mean maximum postoperative interincisal opening at 1 year was 37.5 mm ( 292.36 % mean increase ) , lateral excursions were present in 16 of 18 joints ( vs 0 of 18 joints preoperatively ) , and pain was present in 2 of 18 joints ( vs 13 of 18 preoperatively ) . the results of this study indicate that this protocol is effective for treatment of tmj ankylosis . 
factors associated with soft - and hard-tissue compromise of endosseous implants . this prospective analysis identifies factors associated with endosseous implant removal as well as factors associated with implant morbidity resulting in nonscheduled patient visits . treatment of the latter conditions is discussed . the most important factors identified for implant success were surgery without compromise in technique , placing implants into sound bone , avoiding thin bone or implant dehiscence at the time of implant placement , avoiding premature implant exposure during the healing period , establishing a balanced restoration , and insuring appropriate follow-up hygiene care . in the posterior mandible , the presence of keratinized gingiva was strongly correlated with optimal soft - and hard-tissue health . 
magnetic resonance imaging appearance of the muscles in childhood dermatomyositis . documentation of muscle involvement in a child thought to have dermatomyositis may require the performance of invasive procedures such as electromyography and/or muscle biopsy . we describe four patients with dermatomyositis in whom magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) demonstrated the muscle involvement . the involved muscles had increased signal intensity on the t2-weighted images ( se 2500/80 ) and normal appearance on the t1-weighted images ( se 600/20 ) . the involvement of the muscles was not uniform . there was good correlation between the distribution of muscle involvement by mri and functional testing . follow-up mri scans in patients with favorable outcome demonstrated that the affected muscles had returned to normal signal intensity . although the mri findings are not specific , in the proper clinical context they may be helpful in establishing the diagnosis of dermatomyositis . mri may also be used in establishing an appropriate muscle biopsy site . in addition , mri may be used for monitoring the progress of the disease . 
heat induced radial segmentation of leukocyte nuclei in patients with polymyalgia rheumatica and other inflammatory diseases . heat induced radial segmentation of leukocyte nuclei is an in vitro phenomenon accompanying inflammatory diseases . we studied 62 patients with suspected polymyalgia rheumatica ( pmr ) to determine , whether heat induced radial segmentation can help in discriminating pmr from other conditions . at the initial presentation patients with pmr had more radial segmentation formation than patients with other inflammatory conditions . prednisone induced a rapid and marked decrease in radial segmentation formation in patients with pmr . this latter finding was much less marked in patients with other inflammatory conditions . we conclude that heat induced radial segmentation at the initial presentation and during prednisone treatment can help in discriminating pmr from other inflammatory conditions . 
cd5 positive b lymphocytes in seronegative juvenile arthritis . we investigated the levels of circulating cd5 + b cells in 43 patients with seronegative , hla-b27 negative juvenile arthritis , 7 patients with juvenile dermatomyositis ( dm ) and 16 children with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) . we found that cd5 + b cell levels were high in juvenile arthritis ( p less than 0.01 ) , normal in juvenile dm and decreased in sle ( p less than 0.01 ) compared to 33 age matched controls . in juvenile arthritis , the increase of cd5 + b cells appeared to be independent of discuss activity and was present in all the onset types except in a subset of patient with late onset pauciarthritis . 
a modification of the health assessment questionnaire for the spondyloarthropathies [ published erratum appears in j rheumatol 1991 feb ; 18 ( 2 ) :305 ] a functional status measure was developed by adding 5 items to the health assessment questionnaire ( haq-s ) , and compared to anthropometric measures of spinal mobility . forty-four patients with spondylitis were evaluated by the haq-s and measures of spine flexibility ( finger-to-floor , smythe test , neck rotation , and chest expansion ) . modification of the haq raised the mean difficulty score by 29 % from 0.38 ( sd = 0.49 ) to 0.49 ( sd = 0.51 ) , indicating increased ability to capture functional limitations . neck rotation correlated most strongly with the haq-s score ( r = -0.57 ) , which suggests an important role for this measure in clinical management and followup of spondylitis . 
trigger finger in young patients with insulin dependent diabetes . two-hundred-and-fifty patients with juvenile diabetes mellitus aged 3-38 years , were examined for trigger finger . thirteen patients ( 5 % ) were found to have trigger finger -- 10 women and 3 men aged 14-38 years ( mean 26 years ) . the ring , middle fingers , and thumb were the most affected . two patients had bilateral trigger finger . there was a significant correlation between duration of diabetes and trigger finger ( p less than 0.001 ) but no correlation with the control of diabetes . our work indicates for the first time the prevalence of trigger finger in young patients with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus . 
prevalence of tendinitis and related disorders of the upper extremity in a manufacturing workforce . a cross sectional survey of a randomly selected population of 2,261 textile workers form an overall population of 8,539 eligible workers was performed to evaluate the prevalence of tendinitis in related upper extremity disorders . of the sample , 2,047 respondents ( 91.3 % ) participated in a nurse screening history and examination : 1,091 ( 53 % ) had no upper extremity symptoms or abnormalities on examination ; 959 ( 47 % ) with positive findings were examined by trained physicians . of these , 347 ( 36.5 % ) were found to have no abnormality , whereas , 548 ( 57.3 % ) workers were assigned a diagnosis . of these 227 were considered to fall into the categories of tendinitis ( n = 69 ) or related disorders ( n = 158 ) . the projected prevalence of tendinitis and related disorders for the overall group was 11.6 % ( carpal tunnel syndrome 1.1 % , epicondylitis 2.0 % , tendinitis 3.5 % , shoulder condition 2.3 % , ganglion 2.3 % , neck conditions 4.0 % ) . tendinitis was less frequent in the older age group and those employed for a longer time . the prevalence of tendinitis was found to be statistically higher in physically demanding job categories . ninety-four percent of ailments were of mild or moderate severity . although our study provides prevalence data for these conditions in a large manufacturing workforce across several job categories . 
an unusual manifestation of paget 's disease of bone : spinal epidural hematoma presenting as acute cauda equina syndrome . neurologic sequelae of paget 's disease of bone include involvement of the spinal cord or cauda equina due to mechanical compression by enlarged vertebrae , ischemia caused by a spinal artery , steal syndrome or neoplasm . we describe a patient with paget 's disease of bone who presented with acute cauda equina syndrome due to a spinal epidural hematoma . clinicians need to recognize this entity since surgical intervention may result in a favorable outcome . 
a self-report articular index measure of arthritic activity : investigations of reliability , validity and sensitivity . a self-report measure of rheumatoid arthritic activity developed from the articular index described by thompson , silman , kirwan , and currey ( 1987 ) , was tested for reliability , validity , and sensitivity to therapeutic change . concurrent validity was demonstrated by a significant correlation , ( icc = 0.83 ) between the self-report measure and a standard thompson index completed by a rheumatologist . test-retest reliability was demonstrated by significant correlations ( icc = 0.88 , icc = 0.77 ) between repeated administrations of the self-report form in 2 independent samples . the self-report measure demonstrated sensitivity to therapeutic change when completed by patients both before and after intraarticular corticosteroid injection . the rheumatologist 's index correlated significantly with c-reactive protein but the self-report form did not . 
connective tissue disease in southeast georgia . a community based study of immunogenetic markers and autoantibodies . hla antigens , c4 allotypes and t cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) beta dna polymorphisms were determined in a community based study of connective tissue diseases ( ctd ) . hla-b8 , dr3 and c4a null phenotypes occurred frequently in caucasian patients with ctd , especially those with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) , but were also more commonly found among healthy white controls of this southeast georgia community . tcr beta gene polymorphisms also showed differential segregation patterns between patients with sle and scleroderma . high frequencies of ana and anti-ssdna antibodies occurred among apparently healthy family members and local controls . genetic factors predisposing to ctd in a community setting appear to be similar to those reported from referral centers . 
the heterogeneity of anticentromere antibodies in immunoblotting analysis . we tested anticentromere antibody positive sera from 37 patients by immunoblotting techniques . three antigenic polypeptides were recognized when immunoblotted against protein extracts from hela cell nuclei or from chromosomal segments enriched with centromere region . these were a 17 kda ( cenp-a recognized by 34 sera ) , an 80 kda ( cenp-b recognized by 33 sera ) , and a 140 kda polypeptide ( cenp-c recognized by 26 sera ) . there was no disease specific pattern of antigenic polypeptides , although raynaud 's phenomenon was frequent in patients with anti-cenp-b reactivities ( p less than 0.01 ) . the heterogeneity of the anticentromere antibody response in japanese patients shows anticentromere antibody may not be a disease specific autoantibody and diagnostic marker . 
pyoderma gangrenosum complicating felty 's syndrome . the case of a 54-year-old woman with felty 's syndrome whose course was complicated by mucocutaneous lesions clinically typical of pyoderma gangrenosum is described . necrotizing sinusitis and saddle nose deformity were distinctive clinical features . lymphocytic vasculitis and rheumatoid nodule formation observed within panniculus at the base of a cutaneous lesion and in a nasal mucosal lesion were unexpected histopathologic findings . 
presentation of breast carcinoma as volkmann 's contracture due to skeletal muscle metastases . metastases to the skeletal muscles are extremely rare . they usually occur during the course of a pulmonary or digestive carcinoma . we describe a case of breast carcinoma presenting with forearm muscle metastases and volkmann 's type contracture . 
rapidly progressive calcific periarthritis occurring in a patient with lupus nephritis receiving chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . we present a patient who developed rapidly progressive calcific periarthritis while receiving chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis . she developed chronic renal failure on the basis of lupus nephritis . hydroxyapatite crystals were isolated from periarticular deposits and identified using phase contrast light microscopy and electron microscopy . conservative management using phosphate binding agents and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs was unsuccessful and lesions were excised surgically . 
the prophylactic use of antibiotic impregnated beads in open fractures . four hundred four compound fractures were reviewed in 339 patients treated between august 1983 and november 1987 . the 252 males and 87 females had a mean age of 33 years ( range , 14-86 ) . one hundred twenty-seven ( 31.4 % ) fractures were classified as grade i , 153 ( 38.9 % ) as grade ii , and 124 ( 30.7 % ) as grade iii by gustilo 's classification . the mean injury severity score was 15 ( range , 9-57 ) . three hundred thirty-four of the open fractures ( 82.7 % ) were managed with antibiotic-impregnated bead chains ( tobramycin ) and systemic antibiotic prophylaxis ( cefazolin , tobramycin , and penicillin ) . seventy open fractures ( 17.3 % ) received systemic antibiotic prophylaxis ( cefazolin , tobramycin , and penicillin ) without supplemental use of the antibiotic beads . all open fractures underwent acute irrigation and debridement . in the 404 fractures 46.5 % of wounds were closed primarily , 12.9 % underwent delayed primary closure , 7.9 % were left open , and 32.7 % were temporized by the antibiotic bead pouch technique until definitive flap coverage and skin grafting were performed . of the 404 fractures evaluated , 17 ( 4.2 % ) developed an acute wound infection . of these wound infections , eight ( 11.4 % ) were in the group managed with systemic antibiotics alone . by comparison , nine ( 2.7 % ) of open fractures treated with combined systemic antibiotics and antibiotic-impregnated beads developed an infection . chronic osteomyelitis developed in 18 of 404 open fractures ( 4.5 % ) . ten ( 14.3 % ) open fractures which developed osteomyelitis were managed with systemic antibiotics whereas eight ( 2.4 % ) fractures managed with systemic antibiotics and antibiotic-impregnated beads developed a chronic infection . 
vitamin d and bone . recent studies of the effects of vitamin d on bone include characterization of the receptors for 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 in bone and bone derived cells . the receptors show similar affinities in the different tissues . the receptor concentration is affected by the stage of the cell cycle . glucocorticoid treatment affects the number of receptor sites . the most extensively studied effects of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 on macromolecular synthesis in bone have been on collagen , where both anabolic and antianabolic effects are found . differences in the response may reflect the state of differentiation of the cells . significant effects are seen on osteocalcin synthesis , although the role of this protein in vitamin d action on bone is still unclear . 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 influences the activity of alkaline phosphatase and 25-oh-d3 24-hydroxylase in bone . receptors for growth factors , and production of cytokines may be influenced by 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 treatment . although some of these findings would be consistent with direct anabolic effects of vitamin d or its metabolites on bone , such a process has yet to be integrated into the complete picture of vitamin d action at physiological and pharmacological levels in vivo . recent studies are consistent with earlier results that indicate that hypercalcemic effects of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 are mediated by a direct effect on bone . studies with analogs of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 suggest that the stimulation of bone resorption can be dissociated from effects on differentiation of cells of the monocyte lineage . 
accelerated transmural gradients of energy compound metabolism resulting from left ventricular hypertrophy . eighteen dogs underwent transmural left ventricular biopsies for adenosine triphosphate and suturing of the noncoronary cusp , creating valvular aortic stenosis . three months after aortic stenosis and the subsequent development of left ventricular hypertrophy , animals underwent repeat transmural left ventricular biopsies followed by total myocardial ischemia at 37 degrees c. left ventricular tissue samples for adenosine triphosphate and lactate levels were determined at 15-minute intervals and compared with 15 control animals . no significant difference between subendocardial and subepicardial adenosine triphosphate levels was found between left ventricular samples taken before left ventricular hypertrophy and 3 months after left ventricular hypertrophy . significant differences in adenosine triphosphate utilization occurred between subendocardial and subepicardial layers in control and left ventricular hypertrophy myocardium , however . the gradient between the subendocardium and the subepicardium was significantly increased by left ventricular hypertrophy ( p less than 0.05 ) . significant differences also occurred within the same layer when left ventricular hypertrophy and control groups were compared . during total ischemia , lactate concentration was significantly greater within the subendocardium than within the subepicardium in left ventricular hypertrophy . the onset of ischemic contracture was 48.2 + / - 2.1 minutes in left ventricular hypertrophy versus 62.3 + / - 1.8 minutes in control hearts ( p less than 0.01 ) . subendocardial intramyocardial pressure increased significantly earlier than subepicardial in both left ventricular hypertrophy and control hearts . adenosine triphosphate was used , and lactate accumulated more rapidly in animals with a more pronounced hemodynamic gradient . these data show that after left ventricular hypertrophy , adenosine triphosphate stores in the subendocardium and the subepicardium are unchanged from control values , yet the rates of adenosine triphosphate utilization and lactate accumulation during total ischemia are significantly increased . furthermore , the subendocardial to subepicardial gradient of adenosine triphosphate utilization during ischemia found in normal hearts is markedly increased by left ventricular hypertrophy . 
le fort i osteotomy approach to the skull base . horizontal osteotomy allows the surgeon to safely down-fracture the maxilla for wide exposure of the central skull base . this surgical approach is easily extended posteriorly in the midline to include the clivus and the arch of c1 , providing 8 cm of horizontal anterior exposure and 5 cm of posterior . wide operative exposure and a low rate of complications afford superior functional and cosmetic preservation in removing tumors of the central cranial base . 
spinal bone loss and ovulatory disturbances background . osteoporosis develops in women with estrogen deficiency and amenorrhea who lose bone at an accelerated rate . it is not known to what extent bone loss differs between ovulatory women with regular menstrual cycles who are training intensely and those who are sedentary . methods . we measured the density of cancellous spinal bone from the 12th thoracic vertebra to the 3rd lumbar vertebra by quantitative computed tomography on two occasions one year apart in 66 premenopausal women 21 to 42 years of age . all the women had two consecutive ovulatory cycles immediately before entering the study . twenty-one women were training for a marathon , 22 ran regularly but less intensively , and 23 had normal levels of activity . the lengths of the women 's menstrual cycles and luteal phases , diet , exercise levels , and hormonal levels were also determined . we defined ovulatory disturbances as anovulatory cycles and cycles with short luteal phases . results . the mean ( + / - sd ) spinal bone density in the 66 women decreased 3.0 + / - 4.8 mg per cubic centimeter per year ( 2.0 percent per year ) ( p less than 0.001 ) . amenorrhea did not develop in any woman during the year of observation ( only 2.7 percent of the cycles were greater than 36 days long ) . ovulatory disturbances occurred in 29 percent of all cycles , however . bone loss was strongly associated with these disturbances ( r = 0.54 , 24 percent of the variance ) . the 13 women who had anovulatory cycles lost bone mineral at a rate of 6.4 + / - 3.8 mg per cubic centimeter per year ( 4.2 percent per year ) . the women training for a marathon had menstrual cycles similar to those of the women in the other two groups . conclusion . decreases in spinal bone density among women with differing exercise habits correlated with asymptomatic disturbances of ovulation ( without amenorrhea ) and not with physical activity . 
pre-trigeminal neuralgia . eighteen patients who subsequently developed typical trigeminal neuralgia experienced a prodromal pain termed " pre-trigeminal neuralgia . " these patients described their prodromal pain as a toothache or sinusitis-like pain lasting up to several hours , sometimes triggered by jaw movements or by drinking hot or cold liquids . typical trigeminal neuralgia developed a few days to 12 years later , and in all cases affected the same division of the trigeminal nerve . six additional patients experiencing what appeared to be pre-trigeminal neuralgia became pain-free when taking carbamazepine or baclofen . recognition of pretrigeminal neuralgia makes it possible to relieve the pain with appropriate medications and avoid unnecessary irreversible dental procedures . 
effect of estrone sulfate on postmenopausal bone loss . estrogen replacement therapy confers many beneficial effects to postmenopausal women , such as slowing the rate of bone loss and decreasing the risk of coronary artery disease . this multicenter , placebo-controlled study evaluated the lowest effective daily dose of estrone sulfate ( 0.3 , 0.625 , or 1.25 mg ) combined with 1000 mg elemental calcium supplementation for preventing bone loss in the immediate supplementation for preventing bone loss in the immediate postmenopausal period . spinal bone mineral density was measured using quantitative computed tomography . compared with baseline , bone mineral density increased significantly ( p less than .05 ) after 12 months of 0.625 mg daily ( + 1.9 % ) or 1.25 mg daily ( + 2.5 % ) . the difference between the 0.625-mg and 1.25-mg doses was not statistically significant . estrone sulfate administration ( 0.625 and 1.25 mg ) produced significant changes in various lipid measurements at both the 6 - and 12-month observation points . the prevalence rates for adverse events were comparable among the estrone sulfate groups and the placebo group . estrone sulfate 0.625 mg daily , combined with 1000 mg elemental calcium supplementation , was the minimum effective dosage to prevent loss of spinal bone mineral density in postmenopausal women over a 12-month period . 
premature alveolar bone loss in erdheim-chester disease . erdheim-chester disease is a rare histiocytosis also known as lipoid granulomatosis . oral findings have not been reported previously to our knowledge . this case report documents evidence of oral sequelae of erdheim-chester disease . a patient whose course was followed for 10 years at the national institutes of health had premature alveolar bone resorption . he underwent full-mouth extraction at age 29 years because of severe periodontitis . histopathologic evidence of erdheim-chester disease was demonstrated in the periodontal soft tissues . in the ensuring years , accelerated resorption of the residual ridges precluded the use of conventional dentures . we recommend early preventive dental management for patients with erdheim-chester disease . 
dental abnormalities associated with familial expansile osteolysis : a clinical and radiographic study . familial expansile osteolysis is a rare and possibly unique form of hereditary bone dysplasia with dental manifestations that has affected 42 members of a northern ireland family for five generations . twenty-seven family members , aged 3 to 60 years , were examined clinically and radiographically , and it was found that cervical and/or apical root resorption is an early manifestation of the dysplasia . of the 20 family members with skeletal manifestations of familial expansile osteolysis , 16 showed root resorption . root resorption may therefore be a good prognosticator for later bone involvement . 
differences between florid osseous dysplasia and chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis . florid osseous dysplasia ( fod ) is confused in the literature with chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis . two cases of each condition are presented to demonstrate the differences between them . in fod , there are multiple lobulated sclerotic masses in several quadrants of the jaws , usually in black females . in some cases , the sclerotic masses are exposed to the oral cavity , resulting in a secondary osteomyelitis . periapical cemental dysplasia is often found in association with fod . chronic diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis is a primary inflammatory condition of the mandible . patients have cyclic episodes of unilateral pain and swelling . the affected region of the mandible exhibits a diffuse opacity with poorly defined borders . although women are affected more often than men , black persons are not particularly susceptible . 
the radiologic morphology of asymptomatic temporomandibular joints . a high frequency of remodeling changes was demonstrated radiographically in a series of 200 female patients with asymptomatic temporomandibular joints . fewer than 10 % of joints were completely radiologically " normal " . generally , there was an increasing incidence of changes with increasing age and for edentulous patients , but these relationships were by no means direct or mutually exclusive . 
the radiologic morphology of painful temporomandibular joints . a high frequency of remodeling changes was demonstrated radiographically in a series of patients having pain in the temporomandibular joint region . radiologic morphologic differences between painful and asymptomatic temporomandibular joints were in frequency rather than type . caution should be taken not to overestimate the significance of radiologic abnormality in patients with pain in the temporomandibular joint region . 
bone trabecular pattern analysis in down syndrome with the use of computed panoramic radiography . part ii : visual pattern analysis with the frequency and gradational enhancement . visual pattern analysis of mandibular bone trabeculation of 51 patients with down syndrome and 78 normal persons was performed by using rotational panoramic radiography with a laser scan system . the findings for patients with down syndrome were consistent with geromorphism , one of the somatic characteristics of down syndrome . 
silicone rubber fossa implant removal via partial arthrotomy followed by arthroscopic examination of the internal surface of the fibrous capsule . thirteen temporomandibular joints were examined arthroscopically for evaluation for fibrous encapsulation of silicone elastomer disk replacement implants . partial arthrotomies were performed with removal of silicone rubber implants , followed by arthroscopic examination of the internal surfaces of the fibrous capsule as a pseudodisk and to verify the continuity of the fibrous barrier between the condyle and the fossa . 
a histologic evaluation of the accuracy of tmj diagnostic arthroscopy . sixty-seven temporomandibular joints with internal derangement were examined with arthroscopy , and synovial biopsies were taken for histologic evaluation . histologically , in 10 cases , the synovium appeared to be normal in appearance , 24 cases had moderate to severe synovitis , 11 cases showed hyperplastic synovitis , 13 cases showed synovial fibrosis , and foreign body granuloma was found in 9 cases . correlation between arthroscopic observation and histologic findings disclosed an 89.1 % specificity and 100 % sensitivity . 
triple bone labeling of canine mandibles . fluorescence microscopy was used for evaluation of new bone formation in 16 canine mandibles augmented with hydroxylapatite ( ha ) granules . three fluorochromes were injected at different time intervals during therapeutic radiation treatment . oxytetracycline , dcaf , and alizarin-complexone were given intravenously to mark the bone level at these times , respectively . oxytetracycline , which defined the baseline of bone at implantation of ha , was detectable in 42 % of animals that were irradiated and in no animal of the nonirradiated control group . the marker dcaf , designating levels of bone at the start of radiation , was demonstrated in 92 % of irradiated animals , and in 75 % of animals in the control group . the uptake of alizarin-complexone determined the level of bone found at the end of irradiation . this marker was demonstrated in 50 % of the dogs irradiated and in 75 % of the control dogs . bony trabeculae were found between and at the surface of the ha granules . new generation of bone directly on the ha granule and in the surrounding haversian systems as part of normal bone turnover was demonstrated to take place more than 5 months after implantation of ha . 
temporomandibular joint dysfunction and selected health parameters in the elderly . little research has focused on temporomandibular joint dysfunction ( tmjd ) in the elderly . the present study describes relationships between tmjd and selected health parameters in a population of 75 - to 94-year-old roman catholic sisters ( nuns ) . mental , physical , and oral assessments made on 117 sisters identified 26 with tmjd . among all sisters , tmjd was not associated with age , education , mental impairments , hand coordination , handgrip strength , mobility , or use of walking aids . in 75 - to 84-year-old sisters , tmjd was positively associated with self-reported arthritis ( p = 0.12 ) , edentulism ( p = 0.09 ) , and the presence of complete dentures ( p = 0.05 ) , and negatively associated with the number of teeth present ( p = 0.05 ) , especially the posterior teeth . these associations were weaker in 85 - to 94-year-old sisters . this study suggests that tmjd is associated with the presence of complete dentures and a low number of teeth , especially the posterior teeth . 
diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis of the mandible : a new concept of its etiology . diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis of the mandible is a disease of unknown etiology . the clinical and radiographic findings suggest an infectious origin , but bacteriologic and histologic findings do not support this concept . analysis of clinical symptoms , localization of the condition , and posttreatment findings in a group of 27 patients suggest a chronic tendoperiostitis due to muscular overuse as an etiologic factor in diffuse sclerosing osteomyelitis of the mandible . this hypothesis was supported by the initial results of muscle relaxation treatment in 13 of these patients . 
peripheral giant cell granuloma : evidence for osteoclastic differentiation . nine cases of peripheral giant cell granuloma of the oral cavity have been immunohistochemically analyzed to assess the nature of the giant cells . giant cells were unreactive when tested with antibodies recognizing myelomonocytic and macrophage markers ( lysozyme , mac 387 , ham 56 ) but showed strong immunoreactivity with mb1 , an antibody reactive with osteoclasts . it is concluded that giant cells characterizing giant cell granuloma exhibit a phenotype distinct from other giant cells found in sites of chronic inflammation and may be true osteoclasts . 
progressive osseous destruction as a complication of hiv-periodontitis . a pathologic condition is described , characterized by rampant necrosis of gingival mucosa , periodontium , and related osseous structures associated with systemic infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) . it is believed that this condition is an extension beyond the normal clinical course of hiv-periodontitis ( hiv-p ) and manifests itself in three progressive stages : ( 1 ) hiv-associated gingivitis , ( 2 ) hiv-p , and ( 3 ) an extension of hiv-p to osseous necrosis . two cases of osseous destruction attending hiv-p are reported , one of which led to initial diagnosis of hiv infection . they represent the final stage of disease progression with localized necrosis of gingiva , periodontium , and alveolar bone . 
periapical lesions of mandibular bone : difficulties in early diagnostics . it is often difficult to establish a correct diagnosis on the basis of initial clinical and roentgenologic symptoms in mandibular bone disease . in this paper these problems are discussed , and some suggestions are made to overcome them . the discussion is based on cases of osteogenic sarcoma , histiocytic lymphoma , and chronic osteomyelitis . the patients were a boy and two middle-aged women , all of them with primary clinical symptoms of pain and swelling , diffuse roentgenologic changes in mandibular bone , uncertain response to treatment , and an unusual progress of the disease . 
fine-detail panoramic radiography by free-focus radiography . a clinical demonstration of diagnostic radiographs . previous comprehensive clinical studies have shown that free-focus radiography ( ffr ) may be used to improve image detail and diagnostic value in panoramic radiography of the teeth and jaws . this study demonstrated the clinical image quality in fine-detail panoramic ffr surveys relative to conventional surveys made by rotational panoramic or intraoral radiography . cases of particular diagnostic interest with respect to common dental disease and changes in the jaws were included . the radiographic area of diagnostic interest depicted in ffr surveys generally resembled that of conventional dental radiographic surveys with the use of intraoral films rather then those of conventional rotational panoramic surveys . 
tibial nonunions . treatment tactics with the ilizarov method . the key to the success of the ilizarov method is that the rigid systems , such as plates and traditional external fixators that bypass the nonunion , have been replaced by the axially elastic system of ilizarov . the cyclic axial telescoping mobility , not rigidity , at the nonunion or fracture site is an important requirement for the formation of reparative callus . as we gain more experience with the method , we find ourselves capable of solving increasingly more difficult problems with a level of success rarely , if ever , achieved with more conventional methods . 
the use of the ilizarov concept with the ao/asif tubular fixateur in the treatment of segmental defects . for the treatment of segmental defects of less than 4 cm , cancellous autografting remains the treatment of choice . pedicled or free cortical grafts ( fibula , ribs , iliac crest ) often are not strong enough , particularly when used in the femur . allografts , especially appealing because of the theoretic unlimited supply , should not be considered for segmental diaphyseal defects because they remain dead spacers , remodelled only very slowly and incompletely , and are often complicated by late infection . the technique of distraction histogenesis used by putti and anderson , improved and further differentiated towards corticotomy and fragment transport by ilizarov , is a further possibility of treating long , segmental bone defects . already clinical and experimental data clearly show that the effect of distraction histogenesis can be obtained using many different types of external fixators . therefore , we should use as simple a fixator construction as possible . the standard unilateral sagittal frame we suggest is derived from a two-tube ao fixator using only a few additional elements . the majority of cases with segmental defects and minor additional axial or rotational deformities ( which can be corrected primarily ) can be treated with such a fixator . the quality of the regenerate may be improved with a motorized , continuous transport system and by better soft-tissue coverage using early flaps . interface healing is very probably improved by cancellous grafting and internal fixation after the transport period , thus decreasing the fixator time . 
treatment of malunions and mal-nonunions of the femur and tibia by detailed preoperative planning and the ilizarov techniques . internal fixation has been the mainstay of treatment for post-traumatic deformities . external fixation has been used for correction of deformity in malunions and mal-nonunions . treatment goals of achieving complete deformity correction with restoration or improvement of function were successful in this very complex group of malunions despite the numerous problems , obstacles , and complications of treatment . 
pauwels osteotomy for nonunions of the femoral neck . the concept of the pauwels osteotomy seems to be a valuable method of treating nonunions of the femoral neck . if there is concomitant avascular necrosis , the involved area should be small and the patient younger than 60 years old . 
amenorrhea , osteopenia , and the female athlete . athletic amenorrhea is a problem because it is associated with an increased risk of injuries and potentially an increased risk of osteoporosis in later life . this article gives suggestions for the evaluation of the athlete with amenorrhea and for treatment protocols . primary care physicians should routinely screen female adolescent athletes for amenorrhea and , if athletic amenorrhea is present , initiate treatment or referral for treatment for this important problem with short - and long-term complications . 
the le fort iii advancement osteotomy in the child under 7 years of age . this is a longitudinal study of 12 patients with craniofacial synostosis syndromes ( crouzon 's , apert 's , pfeiffer 's ) who underwent le fort iii advancement under the age of 7 years ( average age 5.1 years , range 4.0 to 6.7 years ) . the average follow-up was 5.0 years and included clinical , dental , and cephalometric examinations according to a prescribed protocol . the study demonstrated that the procedure could be safely performed in the younger child with an acceptable level of morbidity . there was a remarkable degree of postoperative stability of the maxillary segment . however , although vertical ( inferior ) growth or movement of the midfacial segment was demonstrated , there was minimal , if any , anterior or horizontal growth . any occlusal disharmony developing during the period of follow-up could be attributed to anticipated mandibular development and could be corrected by orthognathic surgery . the roles of surgical overcorrection and anterior-pull headgear therapy after release of intermaxillary fixation are also discussed . the le fort iii osteotomy is justifiably indicated during early childhood for psychological and physiologic reasons . 
polyurethane foam-covered implants and capsular contracture : a laboratory investigation . experiments were conducted in rabbits comparing polyurethane foam-covered implants with otherwise identical smooth silicone gel implants . using five objective methods of measurement of capsular contracture , no significant difference could be identified . the foam-covered implants consistently developed capsular contracture , although in most cases this was of mild degree and would not have been clinically significant . in the two foam-covered implants with hard contractures , there was no evidence of hematoma or separation of the foam . 
recurrent anterior dislocation of the ulnar nerve at the cubital tunnel . recurrent anterior dislocation of the ulnar nerve at the cubital tunnel is reported in two patients . this was due to traumatic attenuation of the flexor carpi ulnaris retinaculum . the mechanism of injury in both patients was a fall with the shoulder abducted and the elbow acutely flexed . both patients had relief of their neurologic symptoms following anterior submuscular transposition of the ulnar nerve . 
temporal bone : three-dimensional ct . part ii . pathologic alterations . three-dimensional ( 3d ) surface renderings were obtained from routine axial computed tomographic ( ct ) images in 15 patients with a variety of complex temporal bone abnormalities . the 3d ct reformations served as an adjunct to conventional sectional ct examination . while no diagnosis was substantially changed because of the 3d ct images , they did provide a more global perspective in cases of large tumors and fractures and at the postmastoidectomy site . three-dimensional ct surface reformations are now practical and may be potentially useful for visualizing temporal bone lesions characterized by complex destructive change . 
scapholunate advanced collapse : a common wrist abnormality in calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystal deposition disease . scapholunate advanced collapse ( slac ) is a pattern of wrist malalignment that has been attributed to posttraumatic or spontaneous osteoarthritis of the wrist . its features , however , also have been observed in patients with idiopathic calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate ( cppd ) crystal deposition disease . to determine the frequency and characteristics of slac in this disease , the authors reviewed wrist radiographs in 168 well-documented cases of this disorder . forty-four of the cases ( 26 % ) revealed wrist abnormalities typical of slac . associated findings included bilateral involvement ( 63 % ) ; calcification in or near the triangular fibrocartilage ( 70 % ) ; scapholunate widening or dissociation ( 70 % ) ; and arthropathies of the trapezioscaphoid ( 57 % ) , metacarpophalangeal ( second through fifth ) ( 52 % ) , first carpometacarpal ( 40 % ) , and radiolunate ( 14 % ) joints . results strongly suggest that cppd crystal deposition disease is one of the major causes of slac . furthermore , radiolunate arthropathy was found in 14 % of the patients with slac and cppd crystal deposition disease , which is different from other observations . 
a prospective necropsy study of arthritis in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome . thirty-two knee and 23 sternoclavicular joints from 35 subjects with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome were examined prospectively at necropsy . there were two instances of opportunistic infectious arthritis : one caused by staphylococcus aureus , the other by sporothrix schenckii . in five other subjects , para-articular bone was infiltrated by granulomatous or neoplastic sequelae of the human immunodeficiency virus infection . there was no immunohistochemical ( p24 antigen ) or other evidence for existence of a specific acquired immunodeficiency syndrome arthritis . 
large cell orbital lymphoma in a patient with acquired immune deficiency syndrome . case report and review despite the protean ocular manifestations of acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( aids ) , orbital involvement is rare and only one previous case of orbital non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) has been documented . we report a second case of nhl ( large cell ) of the orbit in a 28-year-old patient with a 4-year history of aids and review the context in which this lesion presented . 
a new dynamic lumbrical simulating splint for claw hand deformity . the claw hand deformity , resulting from low ulnar or combined low ulnar and median nerve palsy , is an incapacitating situation . the splint described herein reverses the clawing by substituting for the lumbricals and interossei . if started early , it not only prevents the permanent stiffness of fingers in the claw position , but also effectively restores function without hampering day to day work because it is a surface splint . 
hemodialysis-related amyloidomas of bone . lytic bone lesions secondary to amyloid deposition are a recently described complication of long-term hemodialysis . the authors refer to these tumorlike deposits as amyloidomas in a review of the subject and four proved cases . this entity typically appears as multiple well-defined , juxta-articular lytic lesions without matrix calcification . the duration of hemodialysis is probably the greatest risk factor for development of these intraosseous amyloidomas . ultrastructurally , this new type of amyloid originates from beta 2-microglobulin , a low-molecular-weight serum protein that is not filtered by standard dialysis membranes . 
occult posttraumatic osteochondral lesions of the knee : prevalence , classification , and short-term sequelae evaluated with mr imaging . the prevalence , characterization , and classification of acute , post-traumatic , occult subcortical fractures of the knee , identified at magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging , were evaluated prospectively in 120 consecutive patients first seen with acute posttraumatic hemarthrosis of the knee . occult subcortical femoral and tibial fractures were identified in 72 % of patients . a modified mr imaging classification is suggested based on a combination of the appearances of such lesions at mr imaging and their short-term osteochondral sequelae . among 67 % of a cohort of 21 patients first seen with what have been described as occult geographic subcortical fractures , osteochondral sequelae were seen at follow-up mr imaging 6-12 months later . the evidence from this study indicates that specific subcategories of occult subcortical knee fractures are associated with an inordinately high prevalence of osteochondral sequelae , especially significant cartilage damage . 
primary bone tumours of the thoracic skeleton : an audit of the leeds regional bone tumour registry . an audit of the leeds regional bone tumour registry found that primary bone tumours of the thoracic skeleton constituted 90 of the 2004 cases ( 4.5 % ) . thirty seven per cent occurred in the ribs , 32 % in the scapulae , 11 % in the thoracic vertebrae , 11 % in the sternum , and 9 % in the clavicles . malignant tumours were more common than benign ( 54 v 36 ) and occurred in an older population ( mean ages 47 and 31 years ) . the scapula was the most common site for malignant lesions and the ribs the most common site for benign tumours . chondrosarcoma was the commonest tumour in older patients , fibrous dysplasia and plasmacytoma in the middle age group , and eosinophilic granuloma in children . presenting symptoms were a poor guide to whether the lesion was malignant or not . this and the small proportion of correct preoperative diagnoses indicate the need for early biopsy . bone tumour registries provide a valuable source of cumulative information about uncommon tumours and facilitate accurate diagnosis , teaching , and research . 
eosinophilic granuloma of the lung presenting as a solitary pulmonary nodule . a symptomless 58 year old man had an eosinophilic granuloma of the lung that presented as a solitary pulmonary nodule rather than the usual diffuse reticulonodular shadow on the chest radiograph . only one previous case presenting in this way has been described . 
traumatic synovitis analysed by arthroscopy and immunohistopathology . the synovitis induced in previously healthy subjects by knee joint trauma was investigated at arthroscopic surgery performed after 3-70 days . synovitis was confined to the areas of the synovial membrane bordering the cartilage lesion and displayed a varied intensity of inflammation . biopsies were sampled under direct vision from the area of the peak inflammatory intensity within each joint and analysed by immunohistopathology . only sparse lymphocytic infiltration and a slight increase of lining cell layers were found in the biopsies after as long as 70 days . the restricted extent and limited intensity of the inflammatory changes contrast with previous findings in rheumatoid arthritis . however , the arthroscopic and immunohistopathological signs of synovitis were no different . 
intestinal flora of patients with rheumatoid arthritis : induction of chronic arthritis in rats by cell wall fragments from isolated eubacterium aerofaciens strains . the composition of the obligate anaerobic intestinal flora of patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) differed from that of healthy subjects ( hs ) . total numbers of aerobes as well as anaerobic coccoid rods were found elevated when compared with hs . eubacterium species were found in all stool samples of both groups ; bifidobacterium species were present in seven ( ra ) and eight ( hs ) out of 10 subjects . from the flora of two ra patients and two hs eubacterium species were isolated and identified . cell wall fragments from four e. aerofaciens strains ( two from ra , two from hs ) were tested for arthritis induction in rats . all four strains induced chronic arthritis which was histologically confirmed . we concluded that in the normal intestinal flora of ra patients eubacterium species are present in high numbers ( i.e. greater than 10 ( 9 ) / g faeces ) ; cell walls from isolated e. aerofaciens strains had arthropathic properties . 
post-traumatic osteoarthritis -- a medico-legal minefield . a consensus view has been obtained from 108 colleagues about four major questions relating to post-traumatic osteoarthritis ( oa ) posed by a retired judge . in determining the likelihood of oa developing after a fracture , several factors must be taken into account . these include whether the fracture goes through the joint , the resulting angular deformity , the degree of soft tissue damage , the ensuing laxity of the joint , the presence of generalized oa , the involvement of nearby blood vessels supplying the bones of the joint and possibly the degree of immobilization . lower limb joints are more likely to develop arthritis after injury than arm joints as they carry more load ( although it would be wrong to think that arm joints were not load bearing ) . occupation is a further factor . age is thought to be important , with the elderly more at risk immediately , but the younger having longer in which to develop the disease . younger people are less likely to develop post-traumatic oa , unless there is involvement of the epiphysis or residual angular deformity . whilst in animals and in some fractures , degenerative changes begin immediately after damage to the joint , in most adults they take at least 2 years . the span is 2-5 years in more severe cases , including fractures of the joint line with a step in the surface , and associated dislocation . otherwise it may take 10 years . most of these data are anecdotal or obtained from retrospective surveys . there is great need for prospective work in this field . 
remitting seronegative symmetrical synovitis with pitting oedema in young adults : a subset of rheumatoid arthritis or a distinct syndrome ? three young adult patients with seronegative symmetrical polysynovitis affecting the peripheral joints with pitting oedema of both dorsum of hands and feet are described . all of these patients had a benign course and resolved completely within 10-15 months of the onset . none developed any deformities or erosions and/or relapse of arthritis after prolonged follow-up . 
natural and recombinant human il-1 receptor antagonists block the effects of il-1 on bone resorption and prostaglandin production . inhibitory factors towards il-1 have been identified in the urine and in the supernatants of human monocyte cultures and have been shown to act as receptor antagonists . we have investigated whether a natural inhibitor purified from human urine ( uil-1ra ) and a recombinant molecule expressed using the gene for an il-1 antagonist isolated from monocytes ( ril-1ra ) can alter responses to human ril-1 alpha in organ cultures of fetal rat long bones and neonatal mouse calvariae . the two preparations probably contained similar or identical molecules , because an antibody to ril-1ra reacted with uil-1ra by western blot analysis . uil-1ra and ril-1ra specifically blocked stimulation of bone resorption by ril-1 in both culture systems , as well as the increase in pge2 production in cultured calvariae . resorptive effects of parathyroid hormone and tnf-alpha were not blocked . the uil-1ra preparation had some intrinsic resorbing activity , but on gel chromatography this appeared in fractions that eluted earlier than uil-1ra . concentration ratios of ril-1ra to ril-1 as low as 10 could block the resorptive response of fetal rat long bones , whereas concentration ratios of 100 to 1000 were required to block il-1 action on neonatal mouse calvariae . the inhibitory effects appeared to be competitive , because increasing concentrations of il-1 overcame the block of bone resorption in both systems and the inhibition of pge2 production in calvariae . 
basilar impression in osteogenesis imperfecta tarda . case report . a case is presented of basilar impression secondary to osteogenesis imperfecta tarda , associated with hemifacial spasm and brain-stem compression syndrome . the symptoms improved with posterior fossa decompression and posterior fusion . 
septic hip in pelvic fracture with urologic trauma : case report . urologic injuries occur in 10 % of pelvic fractures and hip sepsis is a rare complication . the symptoms of a septic hip are often not as dramatic when found in the setting of an acute pelvic fracture and may be overlooked . a case is presented with a review of the literature . early recognition and aggressive surgical debridement are important to prevent the long-term sequelae of septic arthritis . 
the operative management of basilar impression in osteogenesis imperfecta . four patients with osteogenesis imperfecta and neurologically significant basilar impression have been treated over the past 8 years . the experience has resulted in changes in our therapeutic strategy for this particularly difficult problem . these cases are discussed with respect to the disease process , neurological involvement , radiological findings , and modes of surgical therapy . the errors in management as well as the success resulting from our learning experience are described . currently , we recommend the extensive removal of the anterior bony compression by a transoral approach . this should be followed by a posterior rigid fixation that transfers the weight of the head to the thoracic spine , in an effort to prevent further basilar invagination . 
cryptic osteoid osteoma of the cranium : case report . osteoid osteoma is an uncommon benign tumor of bone that rarely involves the cranium . if often causes local pain that is worse at night , characteristically relieved by aspirin , and does not correlate with the size of the lesion . the diagnosis depends on skull radiographs and computed tomography . this report describes a case in which radiographs showed nothing abnormal . the diagnosis and operative localization were accomplished with radionuclide bone scanning . thus , the possibility of radiographically cryptic lesions must be considered in the evaluation of atypical head pain syndromes . 
disorders of calcium and phosphorus homeostasis . calcium and phosphorus are , respectively , the fifth and sixth most abundant elements in the body ; both play vital roles in a multitude of physiologic systems . because the great bulk of these elements is found in the skeleton , a large part of the discussion of calcium and phosphorus metabolism focuses on skeletal disorders , the impact of which falls heavily on young children . this article reviews the physiology of calcium and phosphorus , the skeletal and systemic consequences of disorders of vitamin d nutrition and metabolism , and the metabolic bone disease of prematurity . 
microcomputer reconstruction for analysis of spinal deformity and lung volume in hypokyphotic scoliosis . current techniques for imaging chest deformity are limited to two-dimensional representations , and clinical testing for lung volume measurements are based on pulmonary function studies that are effort-dependent . the authors evaluated spine deformity and lung volume by using a new three-dimensional microcomputer imaging technique . results from preoperative and postoperative chest computed tomograms underwent boundary detection by expert human observers . data were then processed by polygon surface tiling to create three-dimensional color images of the spine and lungs for display . this computer technique allowed : 1 ) visualization of the anatomic relationships from any angle , 2 ) assessment of spinal deformity in relation to lung volume , and 3 ) measurement of individual lung volumes . three-dimensional microcomputer imaging is a useful technique in objectively measuring lung volume and assessing postoperative changes . 
cobb angle versus spinous process angle in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis . the relationship of the anterior and posterior deformities . the standard clinical measurement for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis is the cobb angle , measured from the end-plates of the end vertebral bodies in a standing radiograph . this measurement of anterior column structures describes the anterior spinal deformity . the posterior spinal deformity can be described by the " spinous process angle , " measured from a curve joining the tips of the spinous processes . a computer model , and a radiographic study of cobb angle , spinous process angle and vertebral rotation show that adolescent idiopathic scoliosis results in larger angulations of the anterior elements than posterior elements . this helps to explain some of the inherent limitations of posterior instrumentation , including cotrel-dubousset instrumentation , and of noninvasive posterior surface measurement systems . 
digital radiography can reduce scoliosis x-ray exposure . digital radiology is a new computerized system of acquiring x-rays in a digital ( electronic ) format . it possesses a greatly expanded dose response curve that allows a very broad range of x-ray dose to produce a diagnostic image . potential advantages include significantly reduced radiation exposure without loss of image quality , acquisition of images of constant density irrespective of under or over exposure , and reduced repeat rates for unsatisfactory films . the authors prospectively studied 30 adolescents with scoliosis who had both conventional ( full dose ) and digital ( full , one-half , or one-third dose ) x-rays . they found digital made ap and lateral image with all anatomic areas clearly depicted at full and one-half dose . digital laterals were better at full dose and equal to conventional at one-half dose . cobb angles were easily measured on all one-third dose ap and on 8 of 10 one-third dose digital laterals . digital clearly depicted the risser sign at one-half and one-third dose and the repeat rate was nil in this study , indicating digital compensates well for exposure errors . the study indicates that digital does allow radiation dose to be reduced by at least one-half in scoliosis patients and that it does have improved image quality with good contrast over a wide range of x-ray exposure . 
results of treatment of idiopathic scoliosis with the charleston bending orthosis . the authors present a preliminary retrospective review of the treatment of 32 patients with idiopathic scoliosis with the charleston bending thoracolumbosacral orthosis ( tlso ) , a new , low-profile spinal orthosis . at the onset of treatment , the patients ' mean age was 12.5 years and the mean risser stage was 0.4 . females achieved menarche at an mean of 1.8 months after starting orthotic treatment . single structural curves were treated in all patients . at this time , 2 patients have failed treatment , their curves progressing 12 degrees and 8 degrees , respectively . an additional 11 patients have successfully completed treatment , having reached skeletal maturity with no more than 5 degrees of curve progression . their mean curve change was a 2.2 degrees decrease . the other 19 patients remain under treatment . the charleston bending tlso is worn only during nighttime sleeping hours . it is well tolerated , with excellent patient compliance and low psychological stress , and it may be as successful at curve control as other orthoses . experience with more patients and longer follow-up is needed . 
surface electrical stimulation versus brace in treatment of idiopathic scoliosis . surface electrical stimulation using the scolitron device was applied to 40 adolescent patients for treatment of idiopathic scoliosis . adequate follow-up was available for 30 of these patients . the overall failure rate was 15 of 30 or 50 % . due to curve progression while using the scolitron , these patients either went on to a fusion ( 9 of 15 ) or were changed to a brace ( 6 of 15 ) . the remaining 15 patients were considered successes with no curve progression ( 10 of 30 or 33 % ) or successful/failures with slight curve progression not requiring a change in treatment ( 5 of 30 or 17 % ) . none of the various parameters analyzed were found to be useful indicators of successful treatment using the scolitron device . electrical stimulation was found to be ineffective in preventing curve progression for idiopathic scoliosis . 
influence of bone mineral density on the fixation of thoracolumbar implants . a comparative study of transpedicular screws , laminar hooks , and spinous process wires . posteriorly directed load to failure testing of four different types of spinal implants was performed in individual t5 to s1 vertebra harvested from seven fresh-frozen human cadaveric spines . the implants tested were : 1 ) drummond spinous process wires , 2 ) harrington laminar hooks , 3 ) cotrel-dubousset transpedicular screws , and 4 ) steffee vsp transpedicular screws . the ultimate failure of each implant was compared with the bone mineral density of each vertebra to determine which implants , if any , were particularly advantageous in osteoporotic vertebrae . before biomechanical testing , the spines were analyzed in vitro by dual photon absorptiometry to determine the bone mineral densities ( gm/cm2 ) of each vertebra . the mean tensile loads to failure for each of the implants tested were as follows : cotrel-dubousset transpedicular screws : 345 newtons ; spinous process wire/button : 382 newtons ; steffee transpedicular screws : 430 newtons ; and laminar hooks : 646 newtons . the difference between the loads to failure for laminar hooks and the other implants was significant ( p less than 0.05 ) using one-way analysis of variance . the overall correlation coefficient for bone mineral density with ultimate load to failure was 0.30 ( p less than 0.001 ) . the correlation coefficients were 0.47 ( p less than 0.001 ) for spinous process wires alone ; 0.096 ( not significant ) for laminar hooks alone ; 0.37 ( p less than 0.001 ) for cotrel-dubousset pedicle screws ; and 0.48 ( p less than 0.001 ) for steffee pedicle screws . of the four different implants tested , laminar hooks were most resistant to failure from posteriorly directed forces . 
the use of fibrin sealant to reduce blood loss during cotrel-dubousset instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis . the increased complexity of cotrel-dubousset instrumentation has , as an unexpected side effect , a potential increase in blood loss . a prospective randomized study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that application of a fibrin sealant to exposed cancellous bone can significantly reduce blood loss during cotrel-dubousset instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis . a significant difference was demonstrated in total body loss , loss per level fused , and loss per kilogram of body weight when comparing the sealant group with random controls . a significant difference was demonstrated in loss per level fused when comparing the sealant control with a historical control group . thirty-three patients were randomly assigned to the fibrin sealant or nonsealant groups ; another 10 patients operated on before planning the study were included as historical controls . the sealant was used to control bleeding at the bone graft donor site and in the spine after decortication . all patients underwent cotrel-dubousset instrumentation for idiopathic scoliosis . there were no significant differences between groups with respect to degree of curvature , number of levels fused , age or weight of patient , or operating time . total blood loss in the sealant group averaged 672 ml compared with 894 ml in the sealant control group . no patient in the sealant group required homologous blood . given the increasing awareness of the complications of blood transfusion , the authors conclude that fibrin sealant is a useful adjunct to spinal surgical technique . 
fusion levels and hook patterns in thoracic scoliosis with cotrel-dubousset instrumentation . this study reports the results of treatment of adolescents with king types 2 , 3 , and 4 idiopathic curves using cotrel-dubousset instrumentation . imbalance was seen in types 2 and 4 curves when distraction direction hook patterns crossing the thoracolumbar junction were employed . imbalance was not seen when a modified hook pattern employing compressing forces across the thoracolumbar junction was employed . no imbalance was observed in type 3 curves using the basic right thoracic curve hook pattern . in type 4 curves , a second modified hook pattern is required to obtain improved correction and balance . the mechanism of production of imbalance is explained by a three dimensional analysis of the deformity and of the forces generated by the cotrel-dubousset system . 
sagittal plane analysis in idiopathic scoliosis patients treated with cotrel-dubousset instrumentation . one hundred sixty patients with idiopathic scoliosis underwent preoperative and postoperative sagittal plane analysis of the thoracic spine , thoracolumbar junction , and lumbar spine . the data suggest that mild to moderate improvements in thoracic hypokyphosis are possible . when crossing the thoracolumbar junction , reversal of rod bend and reversal of hooks on the derotation rod appears to provide the most physiologic sagittal contour . cotrel-dubousset instrumentation to the mid and distal lumbar spine can preserve and , at times , enhance lumbar lordosis . 
decompensation after cotrel-dubousset instrumentation of idiopathic scoliosis . spinal decompensation after corrective surgery for scoliosis appears to be a significant problem after cotrel-dubousset instrumentation ( cdi ) . cdi produces torsional changes in the instrumented and uninstrumented spine that could result in spinal imbalance . preoperative and postoperative three-dimensional analysis including computed tomography ( ct ) scans to measure vertebral rotation and segmental rotation were performed to evaluate the importance of torsional changes . moe/king type ii deformities had a substantially greater risk of imbalance . deformities instrumented over fewer spinal segments were less likely to decompensate . specifically , instrumentation excluding the mobile transition segment , determined by maximum segmental rotation and segmental cobb angle , was likely to decompensate . derotation and deformity correction excessive in relation to preoperative side bending flexibility and segmental rotation frequently resulted in imbalance . spinal imbalance after cdi can be reduced by avoiding overcorrection and inclusion of mobile transition segments . 
immediate complications of cotrel-dubousset instrumentation to the sacro-pelvis . a clinical and biomechanical study . the authors reviewed the early complications in all patients fused to the sacro-pelvis using cotrel-dubousset instrumentation at the texas scottish rite hospital . sixteen patients were studied with an average follow-up of 13 months . three methods of sacro-pelvis fixation were evaluated : iliosacral screws , sacral screws , and a technique whereby the caudle ends of the cotrel-dubousset rods were fashioned and inserted into the posterior iliac crest using the galveston technique . seven of the 16 sets of sacral screws ( 44 % ) failed during and after surgery . two of the 7 sets of iliosacral screws failed postoperatively ( 28 % ) . no failures occurred in the 8 sets of cotrel-dubousset rods placed with the galveston technique . seven of the nine medical complications observed ( 77 % ) occurred in the sacral screw group . using calf spines , a biomechanical evaluation of each system was undertaken to determine strength of fixation . each system was failed in flexion 3 times . the sacral screws were the weakest , pulling directly out of the sacrum at 40 n-m . cotrel-dubousset rods inserted with the galveston technique were the strongest , experiencing rod deformities before flexion failure at 70 n-m . iliosacral screws were of intermediate strength failing by rotation on the axis of the screws or pulling directly out of the ilium at 55 n-m . the authors conclude that using cotrel-dubousset rods inserted with the galveston techniques was the strongest and safest method of sacro-pelvis fixation of the three tested . 
surgical treatment of scoliosis in a spinal muscular atrophy population . seventy-eight patients were diagnosed with spinal muscular atrophy between 1969 and 1988 . scoliosis developed in 34 of these patients , an incidence of 60 % . thirty-one patients could be retrospectively reviewed by chart review or interview . the average follow-up was 11.5 years . onset of scoliosis averaged 8.8 years . twenty-two patients were treated nonsurgically and nine surgically . patients had improved sitting balance and endurance after surgery . complications of surgery included loss of correction in one patient , one pseudarthrosis , and one patient who required prolonged ventilatory support . the prolonged survival of patients with spinal muscular atrophy justifies aggressive orthopaedic management of scoliosis to prevent progression of deformity and improve sitting comfort . 
combined anterior and posterior fusion for spinal deformity in myelomeningocele . since 1973 , 50 of 54 children have been treated by the author with a combined anterior and posterior fusion . twenty males and 34 females , ranging in age from 1 to 16 years , have been followed for a mean period of 5.5 years . sixteen patients with a kyphosis averaging 113 degrees ( range , 77 to 170 degrees ) had correction of deformity to a mean of 35 degrees . thirty-seven patients with a scoliosis averaging 73 degrees ( range , 20 to 135 degrees ) had correction to an average of 34 degrees ( range , 0 to 75 degrees ) . there were 4 cases of deep wound infection successfully treated with drainage and antibiotics and only one case required implant removal after fusion/maturation . a pseudarthrosis was noted by radiograph in 6 patients , 3 of whom had isolated asymptomatic lumbosacral pseudarthroses . three patients had pseudarthrosis at the thoracolumbar junction . these required repair and were successfully treated by supplemental posterior fusion resulting in an overall pseudarthrosis rate of 5.7 % . anterior fusion of the dysraphic spine allows greater correction of both spinal deformity and pelvic obliquity in addition to contributing significant strength to the fusion mass . segmental spinal instrumentation with sublaminar and pedicular wiring to custom-contoured luque rods provides excellent correction and immediate postoperative stability . 
delayed anterior decompression in patients with spinal cord and cauda equina injuries of the thoracolumbar spine . forty-nine patients with complete and incomplete injuries of the spinal cord or cauda equina who had undergone anterior decompression at a minimum of 3 months after injury were examined . follow-up was from 12 months to 19 years . postoperative neurologic improvement occurred in 46.5 % of patients with incomplete injuries . if the surgery was performed less than 2 years after injury , neurologic improvement occurred in 68 % with an improvement in frankel grade of 32 % . bladder function improved in 27 % of patients and if operated on less than 2 years after injury improvement occurred in 43 % . conus medullaris decompression resulted in a 50 % improvement . there was an 83 % improvement in the pattern of pain after decompression . of 23 patients with preoperative spasticity , 10 improved but 6 were worse after surgery . 
factors affecting fusion rate in adult spondylolisthesis . the authors examined factors affecting fusion rate in the surgical treatment of 89 consecutive adult patients with spondylolisthesis . two factors significantly improved fusion rate : combined anterior and posterior fusion and rigid postoperative immobilization in the cast . in 65 patients with isthmic spondylolisthesis , the fusion rate was raised from 70 % when posterior fusion alone was used to 88 % when combined anterior and posterior fusion was used . in 20 patients with degenerative spondylolisthesis , frequent use of combined anterior and posterior fusion contributed to a high overall fusion rate of 95 % . among patients with isthmic spondylolisthesis , postoperative cast immobilization resulted in a higher fusion rate of 90 % compared with a fusion rate of 63 % obtained after brace immobilization . 
normal dystrophin in mcleod myopathy . dystrophin and its gene were studied in a patient with mcleod syndrome . this x-linked recessive myopathy has been localized to xp21 , as has the duchenne muscular dystrophy gene locus , which codes for dystrophin . histopathological study of the patient 's muscle showed mild subclinical myopathy . immunological studies of dystrophin in two separate biopsy specimens and analysis of dystrophin gene dna from a blood sample did not detect an abnormality . this suggests that the duchenne muscular dystrophy gene , albeit close to the mcleod locus , is not involved in mcleod myopathy . 
clinical and pathologic studies of twenty-six patients with penetrating foreign body injury to the joints , bursae , and tendon sheaths . foreign body synovitis has been neglected in the rheumatology literature . we describe 26 patients in whom arthritis , bursitis , or tenosynovitis appeared within 1 day to 7 years after an initial injury by a penetrating foreign body . twenty-two patients presented with acute synovitis , which was followed by chronic or recurrent inflammation mimicking septic arthritis , osteomyelitis , monarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis , bone tumor , or apatite deposition disease . foreign bodies were not seen in 5 inflammatory synovial fluids studied , but were seen in the synovium or periarticular tissues of 17 patients . excisional biopsy was required in most patients for precise diagnosis and treatment . 
magnetic resonance imaging of sacroiliac joint inflammation . a consecutive series of 27 patients with symptoms compatible with sacroiliitis underwent magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) of the sacroiliac joints . the diagnostic sensitivity of mri was similar to that of computed tomography or conventional radiography . however , mri seems to have the potential of providing unique information about the disease process in sacroiliitis by demonstrating abnormalities in subchondral bone and periarticular bone marrow . the results of this study suggest that early inflammatory changes in sacroiliitis occur in the subchondral structures of the sacroiliac joints . 
yersinia enterocolitica in the synovial membrane of patients with yersinia-induced arthritis . using a monospecific rabbit antibody against yersinia enterocolitica outer membrane protein 1 , we examined synovial biopsy specimens from 7 patients with yersinia-induced arthritis . yersinia were demonstrated in the synovial membrane by indirect immunofluorescence in 4 patients with yersinia-induced arthritis , but not in 6 control patients with salmonella-induced arthritis or with rheumatoid arthritis . these findings suggest the persistence of yersinia in the joints of patients with yersinia-induced arthritis . 
chondrons from articular cartilage . iii . morphologic changes in the cellular microenvironment of chondrons isolated from osteoarthritic cartilage . chondrons were isolated from human and canine osteoarthritic cartilage using low-speed homogenization techniques . changes in chondron morphology were evaluated using differential interference-contrast microscopy , phase-contrast microscopy , and histochemical and ultrastructural methods . chondrocyte viability was assessed using fluorescein diacetate staining , and chondron metabolism was investigated using autoradiography . the results suggest that initial changes in the collagen and proteoglycan distribution within the chondron are followed by chondrocyte proliferation to form clusters . these techniques offer the potential to study cell matrix interactions in degenerative osteoarthritis . 
progression of osteoarthritis of the hand and metacarpal bone loss . a twenty-year followup of incident cases . we examined the prospective relationship between metacarpal bone mass and osteoarthritis ( oa ) of the hand , using incidence data from the historical cohort in the tecumseh community health study ( tecumseh , mi ) . women were examined for radiographic evidence of oa and for bone mass twice , 20-23 years apart ( 1962-1965 and 1985 ; 683 subjects with an age range of 55-74 in 1985 ) . two measures of oa were evaluated : the highest score assigned to any of the 32 wrist/hand joints , and the sum of scores for all wrist/hand joints . after adjustment for age , women who were classified as having oa ( by either measure of oa ) in 1985 were more likely to have more cortical area at baseline , which indicates greater bone mass . women who developed oa in the 23-year period were more likely to experience a significantly greater widening of the medullary cavity over time , an indicator of increased bone resorption . women with increasing levels of oa involvement also had an increased likelihood of greater cortical area loss . we conclude that women who later developed oa were more likely to have higher baseline bone mass than women who did not develop oa , but these women also had a greater likelihood of bone loss over time . 
suppression of type ii collagen-induced arthritis by monoclonal antibodies . some mouse monoclonal antibodies raised against chicken type ii collagen suppressed or delayed the onset of chicken type ii collagen-induced arthritis in dba/1 mice . this was correlated with the suppression of anti-mouse type ii collagen antibody responses following immunization with chicken type ii collagen . the epitopes recognized by the suppressive antibodies were found to be present on cyanogen bromide ( cb ) - digested collagen peptides cb-11 and cb-12 . this was also confirmed by the finding that administration of the cb-11 or cb-12 peptide suppressed the induction of arthritis . 
double-blind , placebo-controlled study of three-month treatment with lymecycline in reactive arthritis , with special reference to chlamydia arthritis . we conducted a double-blind , placebo-controlled , randomized study of 3-month treatment with lymecycline , a form of tetracycline , in reactive arthritis ( rea ) . lymecycline therapy significantly decreased the duration of the illness in patients with chlamydia trachomatis-triggered rea , but not in other rea patients . in 2 rea patients , c trachomatis was found in the throat , an uncommon locale for this organism . our results suggest that it is important to verify the triggering microbe and that it is beneficial to treat chlamydia arthritis patients with a prolonged course of tetracycline . 
induction of arthritis in rats by aqueous suspensions of mycobacteria without the use of oil . we report for the first time the induction of arthritis by an aqueous , rather than an oil , suspension of killed tubercle bacilli . this was accomplished in the highly susceptible dark agouti strain of rats , by intraperitoneal injection during the healing phase of chemically induced peritonitis . the same procedure ( injection after the induction of peritonitis ) augmented the incidence of arthritis produced by bovine type ii collagen and freund 's complete adjuvant . enhanced delivery of antigen from the peritoneal cavity to regional lymph nodes in the postinflammatory state was responsible for this increase in the induction of arthritis . 
septic arthritis of the c1-c2 lateral facet joint and torticollis : pseudo-grisel 's syndrome . we present the case of a 76-year-old man who experienced the sudden development of fever , rightsided neck pain and stiffness , and torticollis . a soft tissue mass was noted on the right side of his neck , but his head was tilted to the left . computed tomography scans ( with reformatted sagittal and coronal images ) of the patient 's cervical spine revealed destructive changes of the right lateral masses of c1 and c2 and the clivus , and a well-delineated peridontoid soft tissue mass ( confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging ) . after the second episode of right-sided hemiparesis , he underwent transoral surgical exploration , with anterior decompression and odontoidectomy . histologic examination of the surgical material revealed granulation tissue , fibrosis , and chronic inflammation , consistent with abscess formation with invasion and compression of the spinal cord and bone . this case suggests that nonreducible rotational head tilt to the side opposite the side of lateral mass collapse should raise the suspicion of a possible infection . 
application of the polymerase chain reaction and immunofluorescence techniques to the detection of bacteria in yersinia-triggered reactive arthritis . leukocytes in synovial fluid and peripheral blood samples from patients with yersinia-triggered reactive arthritis were analyzed after dna amplification using the polymerase chain reaction . the primers applied were specific for the virulence plasmid-coded 1cre genes of yersinia enterocolitica o :3 and yersinia pseudotuberculosis iii . no yersinia dna was observed within the synovial fluid cells or peripheral blood cells by polymerase chain reaction techniques . however , yersinia antigens were detected in the synovial fluid cells by immunofluorescence techniques . these results suggest that only parts of the causative agents , not the entire microbe , can enter the joint and initiate the inflammation that leads to a reactive arthritis . 
complete heart block and severe aortic incompetence in relapsing polychondritis : clinicopathologic findings . we describe a patient with relapsing polychondritis who developed fatal cardiac involvement comprising complete heart block , acute aortic incompetence , and cardiovascular collapse . pathologic studies showed fibrosis of the cardiac conducting system and necrotizing inflammation of the aortic valve , features not previously described in relapsing polychondritis , as well as evidence of coronary artery vasculitis . 
tired , weak , or in need of rest : fatigue among general practice attenders objectives -- to determine the prevalence and associations of symptoms of fatigue . design -- questionnaire survey . setting -- london general practice . participants -- 611 general practice attenders . main outcome measures -- scores on a fatigue questionnaire and reasons given for fatigue . results -- 10.2 % of men ( 17/167 ) and 10.6 % of women ( 47/444 ) had substantial fatigue for one month or more . age , occupation , and marital status exerted minor effects . subjects attributed fatigue equally to physical and non-physical causes . physical ill health , including viral infection , was associated with more severe fatigue . women rather than men blamed family responsibilities for their fatigue . the profile of persistent fatigue did not differ from that of short duration . only one person met criteria for the chronic fatigue syndrome . conclusions -- fatigue is a common complaint among general practice attenders and can be severe . patients may attribute this to physical , psychological , and social stress . 
effects of radiation therapy on skeletal growth in childhood . ionizing radiation was used to treat childhood cancer long before the advent of chemotherapy , and it took little time for physicians to appreciate the deleterious effects it had on skeletal growth . the cause of this complication results predominantly from alteration of chondroblastic activity . this may stem directly from irradiation at the epiphyseal plate or indirectly from irradiation of glands that secrete growth-mediating hormones . the complication can go far beyond the obvious physical afflictions and extend into the psychologic domain , rendering deeper , more permanent scars . presently , many of these effects are predictable , reducible , and treatable without compromising the cure that so often depends on the use of irradiation . because of the complexities of childhood cancer therapy , strategies aimed at diminishing these effects are challenging . it is imperative that these effects be understood so that they can be reduced in current patients and prevented in future patients . 
osteolytic monostotic paget 's disease of the fifth lumbar vertebra . a case report . osteolytic monostotic paget 's disease or osteitis deformans of the fifth lumbar vertebra occurred in a 55-year-old woman . an isolated lytic process involving the entire vertebral body and posterior elements and an open biopsy showed extensive remodeling with cement lines , myelofibrosis , and osteoclastic resorption typical of paget 's disease . 
scapular allografts . a report of two cases . some malignant tumors of the scapula can be adequately treated by limb-sparing , partial , or total scapulectomy . however , resection of the glenoid portion of the scapula and total scapulectomy result in an unsightly shoulder . in an attempt to minimize the functional impairment and restore stability and cosmesis , scapular glenoid allografts offer a reasonably good biologic replacement . this report describes the cases of a 45-year-old woman and a 32-year-old man in whom massive osteoarticular allografts were used . in one patient , good stability , cosmesis , and function were restored after resection of the glenoid portion . in the other patient , shoulder stability , cosmesis , and limited function were restored after total scapulectomy . no reports of scapular allografts seem to have been previously published in the literature . 
nonhemophilic hemosiderotic synovitis of the shoulder . a case report . in a nonhemophilic 72-year-old man , a persistent degenerative hemarthrosis of the shoulder joint was associated with a complete tear of the rotator cuff . extensive , rusty synovial pigmentation and hyperplasia ( hemosiderotic synovitis ) mimicking pigmented villonodular synovitis ( pvs ) were noted at surgery . spontaneous hemarthrosis of the shoulder includes rapid onset of severe pain , limitation of movement , subsequent appearance of a bruise on the affected shoulder and arm , and radiological evidence of joint degeneration . hemosiderotic synovitis results from chronic intraarticular bleeding . with the breakdown of trapped hemoglobin , iron-containing hemosiderin is stored in synovial tissue producing rusty discoloration and proliferative reaction . the classic cytoarchitecture of pvs has additional subsynovial nodular proliferation of mononuclear cells . hemarthrosis may produce significant structural alteration of joints . its prompt recognition and the awareness of underlying causes should lead to earlier diagnosis , appropriate therapy , less joint destruction , and better outcomes . 
tuberculous tenosynovitis of the wrist . two case reports . tuberculosis was first described in 1756 by acrel in a case report . subsequent reports of musculoskeletal tuberculosis documented the uncommon occurrence of hand and wrist involvement . the two cases presented here demonstrate the difficulty in eradicating the organism even with modern regimens of chemotherapy . intraoperative gram 's stain and frozen sections were useful to rule out other etiologies . firm diagnosis must be established by tissue culture . the first case appeared cured after thorough initial debridement and had no recurrence for 36 years . while recurrences are common in patients treated with debridement alone , most appear within one year after the index procedure . the amount of time that elapsed in this case is unusual and serves as a sobering reminder that tuberculosis may recur at a time distant from the initial procedure . the second patient had tuberculosis diagnosed elsewhere and was treated twice with antituberculous chemotherapy . although the first course of therapy for six months may have been inadequate , the second course with multiple drugs for 18 months would certainly be considered adequate ; yet he had a recurrence in his wrist eight months after completing treatment . these two cases illustrate the fastidious nature of the mycobacterium tuberculosis organism and the need for a combined treatment protocol of meticulous surgical debridement and combined chemotherapy . 
extensor tendon rupture after osteoarthrosis of the wrist associated with nonrheumatoid positive ulnar variance . rupture of the extensor tendon after osteoarthrosis of the wrist associated with nonrheumatoid , positive ulnar variance is uncommon . eight cases were seen in the last five years . they included five men and three women , whose ages ranged from 54 to 82 years ( average , 70 years ) . in all the cases , roentgenograms revealed osteoarthrotic changes in the wrist and dorsal subluxation or dislocation of the ulnar heads . seven cases had operations . friction with the dorsally subluxated or dislocated ulnar head and the osteophytes surrounding it caused these tendons to rupture . it was impossible to use end-to-end sutures , so tendon transfers or tendon grafts were performed . the patients were evaluated one to four years after surgery . three patients complained of some disability in their daily lives , notably , limited flexion of their fingers . it is important that during surgery the reconstructed tendons should not be strained excessively . 
growth disturbance in legg-calve-perthes disease and the consequences of surgical treatment . seventy-two patients with legg-calve-perthes disease were studied to assess the interference with proximal femoral growth as a result of the disease itself and of surgical treatment . twenty-five patients were treated nonoperatively , 20 were treated by femoral varus derotation osteotomy , and 27 by innominate osteotomy . all patients were studied clinically for evidence of abductor weakness and leg-length discrepancy . they were also studied roentgenographically for evidence of femoral head deformity and trochanteric overgrowth . the overall results showed a 6 % incidence of leg-length discrepancy greater than 2 cm after both operative and nonoperative treatment . the articulo-trochanteric distance ( atd ) was less than +5 mm in 23 % of patients , of which 43 % had a positive trendelenburg sign . a significantly lower mean atd was found in patients treated by femoral varus osteotomy , which should be avoided in patients over eight years of age . the study also demonstrated a strong association between coxa magna and growth disturbance of the proximal femoral physis manifesting itself as either a leg-length discrepancy or as a low atd . the significant effects of growth disturbance after treatment must be considered , as well as the sphericity of the healed femoral head , in the final assessment in legg-calve-perthes disease . 
bilateral femoral retroversion associated with acetabular dysplasia . a case report . retroversion of the proximal femur is associated with a number of acquired conditions but is unusual in a congenital form . it is even more unusual to be associated with acetabular dysplasia . a 38-year-old woman with bilateral hip pain had roentgenographic evidence of acetabular dysplasia with valgus neck-shaft angles . physical findings were consistent with femoral retroversion , and computed tomography demonstrated 28 degrees of retroversion on both sides . symptomatic relief was obtained with bilateral varus internal rotation osteotomies of the proximal femur . to date , a case of retroverted femora associated with acetabular dysplasia seems not to have been reported in the literature . 
total hip arthroplasty in ankylosing spondylitis . total hip arthroplasty was performed on 29 hips in 19 patients diagnosed with ankylosing spondylitis over a 13-year period . the results were analyzed retrospectively with an average follow-up period of more than four years . complete pain relief was achieved in 97 % , and significant gains were made in ambulatory capacity . the limited gains in total range of motion ( average improvement 75 degrees ) were felt to be primarily due to the high incidence of brooker class iii and iv myositis ossificans ( 23 % ) and long-standing soft tissue contractures . 
the appearance of the piriformis muscle syndrome in computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging . a case report and review of the literature . the piriformis syndrome ( ps ) is a controversial cause of hip pain because of the lack of objective findings to support the diagnosis . computed tomography ( ct ) and magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging revealed ps in a 27-year-old woman . this case may be one of the first reports in the literature on a piriformis muscle enlargement documented by ct and mr imaging . 
long-term results of posterior release surgery for severe flexion contracture of the knee in patients with rheumatoid arthritis . twelve knees in nine rheumatoid patients with severe flexion contractures were evaluated clinically and roentgenographically for an average of 17.2 years ( range , six to 25 years ) after posterior release surgery . preoperatively , the average extension in the 12 knees was 42.5 degrees , and postoperatively it was 10.8 degrees . even though patients were able to walk postoperatively , the majority had knee pain when they extended their knees soon after surgery . seven knees required further surgery after correction of the flexion deformity . the average time before reconstructive surgery after posterior release was 11.1 months . in the treatment of severe flexion deformities of the knee in patients with rheumatoid arthritis , posterior release surgery was effective only in correcting the deformity . posterior subluxation of the tibia , knee pain , and instability occurred soon after surgery . therefore , patients may require additional reconstructive surgery soon after the posterior release . 
autograft versus allograft for benign lesions in children . benign bone lesions in children are often so large in size that there is not an adequate amount of bone available for an autograft to fill the resultant cavity after surgical curettage . this study compared autografts and allografts with respect to the time required and the success of graft incorporation . fifty-four patients with 61 lesions were studied . lesions were classified as small volume ( less than 60 cc ) or large volume ( more than 60 cc ) and were separated into four groups : small-volume autograft , large-volume autograft , small-volume allograft , and large-volume allograft . allografts appeared comparable to autografts when small-volume lesions were treated . the healing time was slightly longer for allografts with an average period of 21 months versus 27 months for autografts . autografts were superior to allografts in rate and completeness of healing for solitary large lesions . this increased efficacy presumes a somewhat older child in which an adequate amount of bone is available for an autograft . a young child with multicentric or polyostotic lesions can still achieve successful incorporation with allografts . in this study , 38 % healed completely and 29 % healed partially . allografts have a distinct place in the treatment of benign bone lesions in children . 
simple bone cysts . the effects of methylprednisolone on synovial cells in culture . ten years ago , a protocol using depo-medrol injections was developed for the treatment of unicameral bone cysts . this concept , designed by tumor surgeons and based on theory , has been cautiously approached . however , reproducible results have gradually increased clinical acceptance . understanding the healing process has been restricted because of the lack of an experimental model . in an attempt to elucidate this mechanism of healing , a cell culture model was used to investigate the effects of methylprednisolone on synovial cells . initially , three doses of the drug were tested and maximal changes were noted with the concentration of 40 mg/ml . changes were then quantified by morphology , dna assay , cell protein analysis , and electron microscopy . results suggest that methylprednisolone may have a direct effect on the cellular component of unicameral bone cysts . 
acute eosinophilic pulmonary disease associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products . a series of four patients with pulmonary infiltrates , pleural effusions , hypoxemia , peripheral eosinophilia , and symptoms of dyspnea , fatigue , and weakness is reported . lung tissue obtained in three patients revealed interstitial pneumonitis , small-to-medium-vessel mixed-cell vasculitis , and alveolar exudate of histiocytes and eosinophils . all patients reported ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products at a time when an association between l-tryptophan and the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome was established . this clinical pattern of pulmonary involvement may be part of the continuum of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the pathophysiology of this syndrome and the relationship with the ingestion of l-tryptophan-containing products have not yet been identified . 
bowel dysfunction in fibromyalgia syndrome . fibromyalgia and irritable bowel syndrome frequently coexist . in this study , we utilized a previously validated self-administered questionnaire to assess the prevalence of symptoms of bowel dysfunction and irritable bowel syndrome in 123 patients with fibromyalgia as compared to 54 patients with degenerative joint disease ( djd ) and 46 normal controls . ninety ( 73 % ) of the fibromyalgia patients reported altered bowel function as compared to 20 ( 37 % ) djd patients and none of the normal controls ( p less than 0.001 ) . ninety-nine patients ( 81 % ) reported normal alternating with irregular bowel pattern , and 77 ( 63 % ) had alternating diarrhea and constipation . in contrast , only 24 ( 44 % ) of djd patients and six ( 13 % ) of controls had regular alternating with irregular bowel pattern and only 12 ( 22 % ) of the djd patients and none of the healthy controls had alternating constipation and diarrhea ( p less than 0.01 ) . other bowel dysfunction complaints noted in the fibromyalgia group were abdominal gas ( 59 % ) , nausea ( 21 % ) , diarrhea ( 9 % ) , and constipation ( 12 % ) . seventy-nine ( 64 % ) fibromyalgia patients reported frequent abdominal pain that was stress-related 47 % of the time . laxative use was frequent in the fibromyalgia group ( 19 % ) and absent in the other two groups . fifty percent of fibromyalgia patients , compared to 28 % of djd patients , felt that their bowel complaints were worse during exacerbations of their joint disease ( p less than 0.05 ) . in conclusion , patients with fibromyalgia have a high prevalence of gastrointestinal complaints that should be carefully assessed . if the diagnosis of ibs is confirmed , appropriate treatment may improve patients ' symptoms , although this approach requires further study . 
metabolic and health complications of obesity . overnutrition manifested by obesity has emerged as a major health problem in affluent countries . in spite of increased interest in fitness , obesity is on the increase in the united states . this is particularly so among children and adolescents . although obesity is associated with many risk factors for diseases , the mechanisms whereby it enhances disease risk are not fully understood . such an understanding is needed to develop strategies for management of these conditions . in this report we suggest that overnutrition produces clinical diseases only in individuals who already possess a metabolic weakness or " defect " in a given system . in the absence of such underlying defects , overnutrition , or obesity , is well tolerated . one of the most common consequences of obesity is dyslipidemia , that is , elevations of very low-density lipoprotein ( vldl ) triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) cholesterol and low concentrations of high-density lipoprotein ( hdl ) cholesterol . the major effect of overnutrition on lipoprotein metabolism is to stimulate the production of vldl . for patients who have an underlying defect in lypolysis of vldl triglycerides , hypertriglyceridemia will develop in the obese state . for those who have defective clearance of ldl , obesity will accentuate hypercholesterolemia . both of these effects can be explained by overproduction of vldl , due to obesity , combined with a genetic defect in clearance of vldl or ldl . the mechanism whereby obesity causes a lowering of hdl cholesterol is uncertain , although it could enhance removal of hdl by an excess of adipose tissue . another disease associated with obesity is cholesterol gallstones . the presence of obesity more than doubles the risk for gallstones . two underlying factors increase the danger for gallstones : a deficiency of hepatic secretion of bile acids and a tendency for formation of cholesterol crystals in bile . overnutrition promotes the synthesis of whole-body cholesterol , and the only route for excretion of this excess cholesterol is through the biliary tree . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
apolipoprotein ( apo ) e inhibits the capacity of monosodium urate crystals to stimulate neutrophils . characterization of intraarticular apo e and demonstration of apo e binding to urate crystals in vivo . factors that modulate the ability of monosodium urate crystals to stimulate leukocytes could regulate gouty inflammation . lipoproteins that bear apo b-100 and apo e bind to urate crystals and suppress crystal-neutrophil interaction . in this study , we observed that urate crystals , coated with apo e of monocyte origin , had a diminished ability to stimulate neutrophils . apo e was also detected on the surface of urate crystals recovered from gout patients . thus , we analyzed apo e in noninflammatory synovial fluid , and found it to be associated with particles of heterogeneous size and of predominantly alpha and pre-beta electrophoretic mobility . local articular synthesis of at least a portion of synovial fluid apo e was suggested because ( a ) the synovial fluid/plasma concentration ratio of apo e was significantly higher than that for both apo b and apo a-i , which are not widely synthesized by extrahepatic tissues , ( b ) cultured rheumatoid synovial cells in first passage secreted apo e , ( c ) a portion of synovial fluid apo e was heavily sialylated . we conclude that synovial fluids contain apo e that appears partly of local origin . apo e binds to urate crystals and could modulate gouty inflammation . 
cartilage expression of a type ii collagen mutation in an inherited form of osteoarthritis associated with a mild chondrodysplasia . in a family who expressed severe dominantly inherited osteoarthritis , the underlying mutation was traced by genomic sequencing to a single base change which predicts an amino acid substitution of cysteine for arginine at residue 519 of the triple-helical domain of the type ii collagen molecule ( ala-kokko , l. , c. t. baldwin , r. w. moskowitz , and d. j. prockop . 1990 . proc . natl. acad . sci . usa . 87:6565 -6568 ) . in the present study we examined whether this predicted protein phenotype was evident in articular cartilage obtained from an affected family member who underwent hip surgery . the cartilage collagen was solubilized by cnbr digestion . cysteine residues were labeled by reduction and alkylation with 14c-iodoacetate . collagen cnbr-peptides were fractionated by ion exchange and reverse phase column chromatography . one peptide from the alpha 1 ( ii ) chain , alpha 1 ( ii ) cb8 , was found to be radiolabeled . tryptic peptides were prepared from it and identified by microsequence analysis . the results show that approximately one-quarter of the alpha 1 ( ii ) chains present in the polymeric extracellular collagen of the patient 's cartilage contained the arg519-to-cys substitution . the protein exhibited other abnormal properties including disulfide-bonded alpha 1 ( ii ) - dimers and signs of posttranslational overmodification . the premature cartilage failure and osteoarthritis are presumably a result of the abnormal type ii collagen being expressed in the cartilage matrix . 
the neuromuscular pathology of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) is a recently reorganized disorder in patients ingesting pharmacologic doses of l-tryptophan . we studied the lesions of skeletal muscle , peripheral nerve and skin in 12 cases of ems . perimyositis was severe in four , moderate in two , mild in three and absent in three cases . the lesions contained many eosinophils , t-helper cells , mast cells and activated macrophages . type 2 myofiber atrophy was present in five cases and in one , this was the only pathologic finding . severe epineurial inflammation was seen in the three sural nerve biopsies . indirect evidence for peripheral neurologic involvement in three other cases consisted of inflammation surrounding intramuscular nerve twigs ( two cases ) and neurogenic atrophy ( one case ) . phlebitis accompanied the connective tissue inflammation in five cases and endarteritis in one . fasciitis was present in three of four skin biopsies and dermal fibrosis in one . 
a preliminary report of arthroscopic findings following acute condylar trauma standard therapy in orthopedics dictates that joints with suspected hemarthrosis be considered for irrigation or exploration , especially when immobilization is part of the treatment plan . in this preliminary report , 14 patients who had condylar/subcondylar fractures underwent superior joint space arthroscopy as part of the evaluation and treatment of their fractures . in all but two patients , blood was found in the superior joint space . length of time from injury to time of examination correlated with the quantities of blood found . the severity and direction of the blow seemed to influence the findings in the joints . synovial ecchymosis was a consistent finding . the disc appeared to be grossly intact and within the glenoid fossa in all cases , even when the condyle was grossly displaced . these findings raise questions about the role of direct disc injury as a source of postoperative temporomandibular joint ( tmj ) symptoms , as well as about the practice of immobilization of fractures immediately after trauma . further studies will be necessary to compare the treatment results in patients who have had arthroscopy versus those who have not . 
a report of fluorosis in the united states secondary to drinking well water . a 54-year-old female resident of wellston , okla , was found to have osteosclerosis on a routine chest roentgenogram . subsequent investigation disclosed the cause of her osteosclerosis to be fluorosis secondary to the ingestion of well water containing 429 mumol/l of fluoride ( recommended levels , 11 to 58 mumol/l ) . water samples were also obtained from the 12 wells on properties adjacent to the index case . in three other wells , all at similar depths as the well of the index case , the fluoride concentration of the water was greater than 212 mumol/l . urine samples from members of the four households who obtain their drinking water from these wells contained elevated urinary fluoride levels . thus , fluorosis may develop in certain areas of the united states as a result of the natural occurrence of fluoride in the groundwater . consequently , in known endemic areas , it would appear reasonable to measure the fluoride concentration of the well water at the time of drilling . 
in vivo muscle magnetic resonance spectroscopy in the clinical investigation of mitochondrial disease . we have investigated the sensitivity and specificity of a rapid phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( mrs ) protocol for detecting metabolic abnormalities in vivo in skeletal muscle of patients with mitochondrial disease . we examined 17 patients with mitochondrial myopathies . sixteen had only mild or minimal myopathic signs and symptoms . phosphorus magnetic resonance spectra from the resting gastrocnemius muscles showed an abnormal intracellular energy state ( marked by an increased intracellular inorganic phosphate concentration ) in 14/17 . in 3/17 , this was associated with a decreased phosphocreatine concentration . we also studied 20 patients with other diseases of muscle ( inflammatory myopathies , metabolic myopathies , muscular dystrophies , and myasthenia gravis ) that can present with similar clinical features . spectra showed increased intracellular inorganic phosphate concentrations in 6/20 . all of these muscle diseases were associated with evidence of muscle fiber necrosis . abnormalities in the muscle energy state in these cases may be due to secondary mitochondrial dysfunction . except for cases of polymyositis and dermatomyositis , these 6 other myopathies could be readily distinguished from the mitochondrial myopathies on the basis of the clinical examination and blood tests . we conclude that phosphorus mrs of resting muscle is practical in a clinical setting and has a useful sensitivity and specificity for mitochondrial myopathies when used in conjunction with standard noninvasive tests . 
centronuclear myopathy heterogeneity : distinction of clinical types by myosin isoform patterns . we studied muscles from 3 patients with centronuclear myopathy ( cnm ) by immunocytochemistry using myosin heavy chain ( mhc ) - specific monoclonal antibodies to determine whether subtypes of cnm express prenatal mhc and to assess if there is an arrest in development of these muscles . muscle from a woman with childhood-onset cnm did not express prenatal mhc , yet this prenatal mhc was strongly expressed in the muscle fibers of 2 brothers with x-linked cnm . this finding represents the 1st immunocytochemical evidence of the expression of a prenatal myosin isoform in nonregenerating postnatal human muscle and suggests that the x-linked form of cnm differs from the other types because of a true arrest in maturation of the muscle . 
the effect of spine fusion on respiratory function in duchenne muscular dystrophy . serial measures of respiratory function were made in 17 patients with duchenne muscular dystrophy who underwent segmental spine fusion and in 22 patients who did not . no significant differences were observed between the 2 groups ( operated vs. nonoperated ) in terms of declining respiratory function . nonetheless , all operated patients reported either improved sitting comfort , appearance , or both . thus , our results suggest that there are distinct benefits from segmental spine fusion ; however , there was no salutary effect upon respiratory function either in the short term or after up to 5 years follow-up . 
magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex in cervical spondylosis . we report a new technique of transcranial magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex to measure conduction within central motor pathways of 67 patients with cervical spondylosis or disk herniation . there were upper motor neuron signs in 34 patients ( 51 % ) and x-ray evidence of cervical cord compression in 44 ( 66 % ) . muscle action potentials ( maps ) to cortical stimulation were abnormal in 84 % of patients with , and 22 % of those without , radiologic signs of cervical cord compression . median nerve somatosensory evoked potentials were altered in only 25 % of patients . the frequency of map alterations correlated with upper motor neuron signs . in 5 ( 11 % ) of the 44 patients with x-ray evidence of cervical cord compression , subclinical cord compression was disclosed by cortical stimulation . in 10 patients restudied 3 months after surgical decompression , normalization of central motor conduction time did not occur , indicating permanent damage to the cervical cord . 
clinical evaluation of the iti ( f-type ) hollow cylinder implant . in 1976 the hollow cylinder implant was introduced . a number of articles have been published about the iti implant system . in this article , short-term results of 102 iti f-type implants in 40 patients are reported . the results showed this one-stage implant to be at least comparable to other well-known implant systems . 
massive osteolysis of the maxillofacial bones . report of two cases . two cases of massive osteolysis were encountered , one affecting the mandible and the other the maxilla and mandible . only 13 cases have been reported so far in the existing literature for massive osteolysis of the mandible . it is indeed a rare disease . our two cases were surgically treated and were clinically and histopathologically assessed . 
coronoid process elongation in rhesus monkeys ( macaca mulatta ) after experimentally induced mandibular hypomobility . a cephalometric and histologic study . the present study provided an experimental model that allowed a cephalometric and histologic analysis of craniofacial growth in monkeys with induced translatory impairment of the mandibular condyle . cauterization was performed anterior to the joint in nine experimental rhesus monkeys , while eight animals served as control subjects . the experimental procedure produced mandibular hypomobility in six animals , in three by means of temporomandibular joint ankylosis and in three by means of dense scar tissue formation anterior to the joint . in the remaining three experimental animals no restriction of mandibular mobility was created . mandibular hypomobility was found to induce elongation of the coronoid process and was also associated with bone deposition in the gonial region . in contrast , normal remodeling of the gonial region was found in the experimental animals with normal range of movements and in the control animals . 
african burkitt 's lymphoma : case report and light and electron microscopic findings . an african burkitt 's lymphoma occurred in a 9-year-old american boy who had jaw tumors , proptosis , and abdominal masses . histologically , the tumor consisted of a monotonous overgrowth of undifferentiated lymphocytes with a " starry sky " appearance . the differential diagnosis of african versus american form and burkitt 's lymphoma versus non-burkitt 's lymphoma is discussed . 
the role of an autoantigen , histidyl-trna synthetase , in the induction and maintenance of autoimmunity . patients with systemic autoimmune diseases make specific autoantibodies that are directed against self structures . according to one view , these autoantibodies arise as a result of an immune response to foreign antigens such as infectious agents that share , by molecular mimicry , common structures with host proteins . an alternative view is that the target autoantigen itself initiates , selects , and sustains autoantibody synthesis . we show here that anti-jo-1 autoantibodies directed against histidyl-trna synthetase in the human autoimmune muscle disease polymyositis undergo , in addition to spectrotype broadening and class switching , the sine qua non of an immune response to the target antigen -- affinity maturation to that antigen . we demonstrate further that these autoantibodies , unlike anti-synthetase antibodies induced in mice immunized with heterologous antigen , bind only nonlinear epitopes on the native human synthetase that remain exposed when the enzyme is complexed to trna ( his ) . these data suggest that the native target autoantigen itself has played a direct role in selecting and sustaining the autoantibody response and sharply restrict the time and the way in which a molecular mimic might act to provoke autoantibodies . 
skeletal manifestations of ectopic or inappropriate endocrine and metabolic syndromes . a variety of tumors and nontumorous lesions were used to illustrate some of the biologic , clinical , and pathologic aspects of inappropriate or ectopic endocrine and metabolic syndromes that have musculoskeletal repercussions . it is clear , both from the discussion and case material , that many mechanisms of ectopic endocrine syndromes have yet to be clarified . elaborate techniques are available for hormonal estimations , but their routine use is prohibitively expensive and relatively unrewarding . cells of a given lesion may be functionally heterogeneous or may fail to elaborate active products in substantial amounts . different cells may produce similar peptides , while the same cells can produce more than one . despite these difficulties , recognition of ectopic endocrine syndromes remains crucial to diagnosis and patient management , and thus corroboration or correlation must often rest on a cruder basis . in fact , the clinical significance of basic laboratory data , e.g. , pth elevation , may vary , as pth may be immunoreactive but biologically inactive . as another example , hypercalcemia associated with myeloma may be variously related to coexistent hyperparathyroidism , renal disease , dehydration , or humoral osteolysis . therefore , roentgenographic evidence of bone destruction or skeletal stigmata of hyperparathyroidism imbues laboratory data with greater significance . paraneoplastic syndromes are of particular concern to the radiologist , as multiple systemic manifestations , occurring either synchronously or metachronously , may suggest the presence of an underlying or unifying lesion or even of a specific type of neoplasm . they may precede detection of neoplasms by months to years and can develop at any time during their course . paraneoplastic syndromes may , furthermore , parallel the course of a lesion and be used as indicators of remission or recurrence . conversely , those unassociated with overt symptoms possess endocrine markers that can reinforce sometimes silent skeletal stigmata . familiarity with representative secretory products influencing the musculoskeletal system per se may often clarify seemingly innocuous and sometimes asymptomatic skeletal findings . alert imagers may , therefore , detect , infer , or suspect particular syndromes when they present in a specific sequence or mosaic . conversely , when apprised of their existence , imagers should know where their related effects may be sought or anticipated . such relationships , sometimes serendipitously discovered , may be valuable assets in clinical diagnosis and patient management in both suspected and unsuspected cases . 
radiologic manifestations in the musculoskeletal system of miscellaneous endocrine disorders . the manifestations of endocrine derangements in the musculoskeletal system in infancy and childhood are disturbances in growth and maturation and in adulthood are disturbances in maintenance and metabolism . hypercortisolism during skeletal immaturity suppresses growth . in the adult , hypercortisolism leads to osteoporosis , osteonecrosis , and muscle wasting . deficiency of growth hormone during skeletal development results in short stature . an excess of growth hormone in a skeletally immature individual results in gigantism , an excess in a skeletally mature individual results in acromegaly . patients with gigantism have extreme height with normal body proportions . musculoskeletal manifestations of acromegaly include soft-tissue thickening , vertebral body enlargement , characteristic hand and foot changes , and enthesal bony proliferation . hyperthyroidism causes catabolism of protein and loss of connective tissue , which manifest as muscle wasting . deficient levels of thyroid hormone cause defects in growth and development . severe growth retardation from congenital hypothyroidism is rare because neonatal screening recognizes the disorder and leads to early treatment . the skeletal manifestation of hypergonadism in children is precocious growth and early skeletal maturation . although the initial precocious growth spurt results in a tall child , early closure of the growth plates results in a short adult . hypogonadism in the prepubertal child results in delayed adolescence and delayed skeletal maturation . diabetes mellitus in childhood results in decreased growth , a phenomenon presumed to be secondary to nutritional abnormalities . generalized osteoporosis and short stature are common . in the adult , generalized osteoporosis may accompany insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus if obesity is absent . calcification of interdigital arteries of the foot is common in diabetics and uncommon in other conditions . additional skeletal manifestations relate to complications of diabetes such as peripheral neuropathy and diabetic foot disease . 
inherited diseases of bone density in children . in this article the radiographic manifestations of various genetic diseases predominately affecting bone mineralization are considered . osteogenesis imperfecta and other diseases of diffuse osteopenia , hereditary rickets and rachiticlike conditions , and osteopetrosis and other diseases of increased bone density are emphasized . recognition of the radiographic manifestations allows accurate diagnosis , therapeutic intervention when possible , and determination of recurrence risk for genetic counseling . 
metabolic bone disease . morphometry . the history of the development of radiologic morphometric techniques is traced , emphasizing their pathophysiologic background and relevance to possible therapies . the techniques are described and longitudinal and comparative studies assessed . technical limitations of the various methods are presented . 
the pathology of metabolic bone disease . the skeletal manifestations of the diverse group of metabolic bone diseases are mediated through the altered function of osteoblasts and osteoclasts and abnormal rates of mineralization . appropriate understanding of their pathologic conditions requires familiarity with the normal anatomy and physiology of the skeleton . the accurate identification of metabolic bone disease frequently demands histologic confirmation and sophisticated analysis of undecalcified bone specimens labeled with tetracycline by histomorphometric techniques . these procedures allow the assessment of many morphologic features that characterize specific disease states . the most common types of metabolic bone diseases are acquired disorders ; nonetheless , rare forms frequently are genetically based and cause intrinsic alterations in the bone-cell populations . 
radiographic appearance of osteopenia . the radiographic appearance of bone is the result of two physiologic processes : the resorption of bone and the remodeling of bone in response to the stresses applied to it . the relative rates of these two processes will determine the structural and , therefore , the radiographic appearance of the affected bone . 
osteoporosis . current techniques and recent developments in quantitative bone densitometry . knowledge about the proper use and interpretation of bone densitometry studies and an understanding of appropriate medical interventions are not universal among physicians , nor are instrumentation and technical performance of bone density studies of uniformly high quality . indeed , this deficiency of medical and technical expertise is the principal deterrent to widespread implementation of our recommended clinical applications at this time . nonetheless , given the current impetus to disseminate information about osteoporosis , to make newer instrumentation more readily available , and to limit the cost of these techniques , we anticipate that our recommendations may soon become standard medical practice . 
osteoporosis . osteoporosis , a condition of decreased bone tissue that increases the likelihood of fracture , places a significant burden on our society in terms of health cost and morbidity . the most common type of osteoporosis is involutional , and two subtypes are recognized : type 1 and type 2 . type 1 , or postmenopausal , osteoporosis is most commonly seen in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women from ages 51 to 75 . estrogen deficiency is the most dominant factor in the pathogenesis of this disorder . type 2 , or aging related , osteoporosis is seen in elderly women and men aged 70 or more . bone loss in this group is related to aging , estrogen deficiency , negative calcium balance , and a variety of environmental and genetic factors . the best approach to the management of osteoporosis is to develop a lifelong strategy that maximizes peak bone mass and minimizes aging-related and postmenopausal bone loss . estrogen is the only medication approved for the prevention of bone loss that is in general use . other strategies to prevent bone loss ( and maximize peak bone mass ) include adequate calcium intake , adequate exercise , and avoidance of excess alcohol , tobacco , and caffeine use . 
hyperparathyroidism . since the introduction of routine automated measurements of serum calcium levels in the 1970s , the detection of primary hyperparathyroidism has risen considerably . nevertheless , the severe bone changes described by von recklinghausen are still quite rare . the apparent rise in incidence is accounted for by the discovery of a large group of predominantly asymptomatic elderly patients who have mild primary hyperparathyroidism . because the diagnosis is most often confirmed through laboratory tests , radiologic studies are now most useful in assessing the severity of the disease . the presence of bone changes is an accepted indication for parathyroid surgery in primary hyperparathyroidism . for patients with asymptomatic disease in whom nonsurgical treatment may be considered , radiographic evaluation is one of several techniques that may be used to assess progression . high resolution radiographs of the hands are most valuable in this regard . accelerated bone mineral loss , as measured by quantitative techniques , will probably play a significant role in the future . radiographic follow-up of patients with renal disease and secondary hyperparathyroidism is equally important , as increased bone or soft tissue changes may indicate a need for therapeutic change . radiographically identifiable changes of hyperparathyroidism consist mainly of various types of accelerated bone resorption . multifocal subperiosteal resorption is generally considered to be pathognomonic of hyperparathyroidism . subligamentous , subchondral , endosteal , and intracortical resorption are also important manifestations of accelerated bone turnover . the earliest bone changes are visible in the hands and should be searched for especially carefully in the phalanges and terminal tufts . only occasionally will changes be found elsewhere in the skeleton when hand changes are not present . 
rickets and osteomalacia are still around . the terms rickets and osteomalacia describe gross , histologic , and radiologic abnormalities common to more than 50 diseases that vary in cause and clinical presentation . rachitic and osteomalacic syndromes seen in current clinical practice usually are resistant to vitamin d forms and are most often caused by phosphate loss or 1,25 ( oh ) 2d deficiency , or both . radiographic identification of rachitic or osteomalacic syndromes and accurate diagnosis of a particular cause is essential , as many patients ' conditions can be improved or cured with proper therapy . 
motor-evoked potentials in patients with cervical spine disorders . measurements of motor-evoked potentials by means of fractionated magnetic stimulation of motor pathways to the upper limbs was performed as part of the clinical assessment in 268 patients with cervical spine disorders . seventy-two percent of the 127 patients with degenerative changes of the cervical spine , 67 % of the 55 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , and 57 % of the 51 patients with trauma of the cervical spine showed a pathologic delay of central motor latency ( cml ) . the data suggest that this method has a high sensitivity and therefore is recommended in the diagnosis of cervical spine disorders in patients with suspected compression of neural structures . 
the neurologic workup in patients with cervical spine disorders . care must be exercised in interpreting the clinical and radiologic findings when assessing patients with cervical spondylosis and involvement of neural structures for surgery . if the clinical picture can not logically be explained by the radiologic findings , further investigation is indicated to exclude a coexistent disorder . investigations may include electrophysiologic tests , transcranial magnetic stimulation , cerebrospinal fluid ( csf ) analysis , and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . only then can the indication for surgical intervention be properly determined . 
anterior cervical discectomy and fusion . a retrospective review of 94 patients who had undergone anterior cervical discectomy and fusion was performed to analyze the result in patients who had a diagnosis of posterolateral spondylosis , disc herniation , or both . although in 23 of 94 patients additional adjacent asymptomatic levels of spondylosis were noted , only the symptomatic levels were addressed in the 94 cases . postoperatively two cases of dysphagia were noted , as well as a 4 % pseudarthrosis rate . there was an 88 % good or excellent result when no additional spondylosis was present , but only a 60 % good or excellent result when just the symptomatic levels were addressed , leaving unoperated adjacent levels of spondylosis . 
surgical management of cervical soft disc herniation . a comparison between the anterior and posterior approach . anterior cervical fusion was initially described in the 1950s for cervical spondylotic radiculopathy . the indications for this procedure in the management of soft disc herniation have not been clearly defined . in addition , controversy exists as to whether a cervical soft herniation should be managed by an anterior approach or a posterior cervical laminotomy-foraminotomy . the authors report the results of a prospective study comparing anterior discectomy and fusion to posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy for the management of soft cervical disc herniation . twenty-eight patients underwent anterior discectomy and fusion ( robinson horseshoe graft ) while 16 patients underwent posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy . the disc herniations were classified into two types . type i were single level anterolateral herniations ( 33 patients ) while type ii were central soft disc herniations ( 11 patients ) . clinically , patients with type i herniations manifested signs and symptoms of radiculopathy while patients with type ii herniations manifested signs of myelopathy or neck pain and bilateral upper extremity paresthesias in 4 patients . confirmatory studies were myelography in 12 patients , myelography combined with computed tomography ( ct ) in 26 patients , and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) in 6 patients . for type i herniations , 17 patients underwent anterior fusion while 16 patients had a posterior laminotomy-foraminotomy . the 11 patients classified as type ii herniation all underwent anterior discectomy and fusion . there were 27 men and 17 women . the age range was 21 to 52 years ( mean , 41 years ) . the follow-up was 1.6 to 8.2 years ( mean , 4.2 years ) . 
functional stability of the canine cervical spine after injury . a three-month in vivo study . although clinical instability is an in vivo problem , most spinal instability criteria are either subjective or are based on in vitro experiments . the authors performed an in vivo experiment using a canine model to study the natural history of spinal instability as a function of healing time up to 12 weeks . three injuries were produced surgically : sham ; laminectomy at c4 ; and bilateral facetectomy at c4-c5 . three 1.5-mm steel balls were implanted into c3 to c6 vertebrae at the time of surgery . standardized functional flexion-extension stereoradiographs of the cervical spine were obtained before injury , immediately after injury and at 0.5 , 1 , 1.5 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7.5 , 9 , and 12 weeks postinjury and immediately after killing the animals . in general , the authors found decreased ranges of motion ( rom ) at the c4-c5 level , compared with the pre-injury values , for all injuries , but most significantly for the facetectomy . the maximum decrease occurred between 0 and 0.5 weeks postinjury . between 2 and 12 weeks , there was recovery in the rom , especially for the two less severe injuries . the changes in the rom at each spinal level were explained by simultaneous presence of a destabilizing factor , caused by the three different injuries with the sham as the least and the facetectomy as the most destabilizing injury , and a stabilizing mechanism of muscle spasm in the beginning and of healing and other adaptive responses in the late phase after injury . because of the significant differences between the canine model and the human cervical spine , the present findings should be extrapolated to the human situation with caution . 
evaluation of current extrication orthoses in immobilization of the unstable cervical spine . an experiment was designed to evaluate the comparative stabilizing efficacy of several widely used semi-rigid orthoses applied to unstable fresh cadaver cervical spines subject to load . cadaver specimens were surgically destabilized at the c4-5 segment . lateral radiographs of the destabilized spine were obtained before and after collar placement and after the application of a 5-pound flexion force . data analysis employing a one-way analysis of variance showed no statistically significant difference in the necloc 's , philadelphia collar 's , or the stifneck 's ability to stabilize the cervical spine against a deforming flexion force ( p greater than 0.05 ) . they all provide translational stability while allowing angular changes to occur with application of the flexion force . the philadelphia collar halo system is statistically superior to all three of the aforementioned collars in prevention of both translation and sagittal rotation ( p less than 0.05 ) . 
anterior cervical plate fixation with the titanium hollow screw plate system . a preliminary report . morscher , of switzerland , has developed an anterior cervical spine plate system ( thsp ) that does not require screw purchase of the posterior cortex . this design eliminates potential neurologic complications usually associated with the anterior plate system , but maintains the mechanical advantages of internal fixation . the authors reviewed 13 consecutive patients in whom the thsp system was applied . indications for the use of this device included acute trauma in three patients , trauma of more than 6 weeks ' duration in five patients , and spondylosis in five patients . fifteen plates and 58 screws were placed , with no screws purchasing the posterior cortex . postoperative immobilization varied from no immobilization to four-poster brace . with a mean follow-up of 13 months , all 13 patients went on to fusion . one patient had screws placed in the disc rather than in bone and went on to malunion . in all other patients , radiographs did not demonstrate screw migration , screw-bone lucency , graft dislodgement , or malunion . no patient suffered neurologic injury as a result of this device . the thsp system facilitates reliable fusion with minimal complications . its use should be considered in multilevel anterior spine defects , posttraumatic cervical kyphosis , and cervical fractures with posterior disruption requiring anterior fusion . 
recurrent childhood myoglobinuria . recurrent heritable childhood myoglobinuria is a potentially fatal entity ( mortality up to 35 % ) in which prompt diagnosis and treatment are critical . sixty childhood cases have been reported between 1910 to 1988 , most with undiagnosed etiologies . we have studied an additional 40 cases referred to cpmc ( 1980-1988 ) , suggesting that this condition is largely underdiagnosed or unreported . we have found important differences between the childhood and adult-onset cases . of 77 cases of adult-onset recurrent myoglobinuria , 45 % have been diagnosed biochemically . in contrast , only 30 % of the 60 childhood cases from the literature have been diagnosed ; 11 with cpt deficiency and 7 with various glycolytic defects , and only 5 of our 40 childhood cases have been diagnosed , all with cpt deficiency . the 100 combined childhood cases can be divided into an exertional group ( type i ) with exertion as the leading precipitating factor ( 46 literature and 10 cpmc cases ) , a toxic group ( type ii ) with infection and/or fever as the primary precipitant ( 14 literature and 23 cpmc cases ) , and 7 undefined cases . the type i group resembles the adult-onset group in which exercise is also the leading precipitating factor . there is a slight female predominance ( male/female = 1:1.3 ) in the toxic group vs. a marked male predominance in the exertional and adult groups ( 4:1 ) . only 4 of 37 cases ( 11 % ) of the toxic group are diagnosed ( all with cpt deficiency ) vs. 19 of 56 cases ( 34 % ) of the exertional group ( 12 cpt , 7 glycolytic ) and 45 % of the adult group . the toxic group is also differentiated by a higher mortality rate and by the presence of additional clinical features , including ictal bulbar signs ( 8 of 18 ) , encephalopathy ( 4 of 19 ) , and seizures ( 2 of 7 ) , as well as persistent cardiac abnormalities , developmental delay ( 4 of 17 ) , and dysmorphic features ( 2 of 9 ) . these clinical characteristics clearly differentiate the childhood from the adult cases and suggest the presence of more generalized disease processes and different biochemical etiologies . a study of the heritable causes of myoglobinuria is important because identification of the biochemical defect may elucidate the pathogenetic mechanism of the myoglobinuria and facilitate the development of rational treatment strategies aimed at circumventing or correcting the metabolic block . 
acute osteomyelitis in children . reassessment of etiologic agents and their clinical characteristics . one hundred thirty-five children with acute osteomyelitis were identified by chart review during a 7-year period , january 1 , 1980 , through december 31 , 1986 . bacteriologic causes were detected in 75 ( 55 % ) of the patients . staphylococcus aureus , haemophilus influenzae type b , and pseudomonas aeruginosa were identified in 34 ( 25 % ) , 16 ( 12 % ) , and eight ( 6 % ) children , respectively . staphylococcus aureus occurred in all age groups , h influenzae type b occurred only in children younger than 3 years and was the number one cause of disease in this group . pseudomonas aeruginosa occurred exclusively in children older than 9 years . children with h influenzae type b had clinical and laboratory findings that were almost indistinguishable from a matched group of children with osteomyelitis due to other known bacteria , although children with h influenzae type b tended to have more joint effusions ( 63 % vs 27 % ) , less lower extremity disease ( 22 % vs 70 % ) , and fewer positive cultures from bone or joint aspirates ( 41 % vs 89 % ) . unlike most pediatric cases of osteomyelitis , the ones due to p aeruginosa did not represent the hematogenous route of infection ; penetrating injury to the foot was present in every case . children with p aeruginosa infections were older than 9 years ( 100 % ) , predominantly male ( 88 % ) , often afebrile ( 83 % ) , and never bacteremic . these data provide guidelines for the initial work-up and management of osteomyelitis in children . 
pneumococcal osteomyelitis and arthritis in children . a hospital series and literature review . twenty-nine children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis , 11 of whom had osteomyelitis , were treated at cook county hospital , chicago , ill , in the past 20 years . they were mostly normal children with a single focus of infection . they represented more than 5 % of the hospitalized children with a systemic pneumococcal infection . most of the pneumococcal isolates were serotyped ; serotype 19 , in particular , seemed to be unusually common in these children . twenty-three of the 29 children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis had been hospitalized in the past 15 years . these 23 children were compared with 161 hospitalized children who had bone and joint infections with other isolated bacteria . the children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis were indistinguishable from most of the other children , except by age . all but three of the children with pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis were between the ages of 3 and 24 months . in this age group , pneumococcus was the common isolate from children with osteomyelitis , and second only to haemophilus influenzae from children with bacterial arthritis . pneumococcal osteomyelitis and/or arthritis has never been rare ; the medical literature describes at least 245 other children , most of whom were younger than 2 years . 
neural arch stenosis and spinal cord injury in thanatophoric dysplasia . bony abnormalities caused by thanatophoric dysplasia affect the base of the skull and the vertebrae as well as the ribs and appendicular long bones . we present our findings in a full-term infant with thanatophoric dysplasia in whom the posterior fossa , the rostral vertebral column , and the neuraxis at and adjoining the craniovertebral junction were studied by dissection , roentgenography , and histologic examination . in this infant , malformations of the vertebral laminae , most prominent in the basiocciput and atlas vertebra , led to compression of the rostral cervical spinal cord , causing gliosis and focal necrosis . stenosis of the foramen magnum and spinal canal may contribute to the ventilatory insufficiency that often causes death in patients with thanatophoric dysplasia . we suggest that the causes of death in patients with thanatophoric dysplasia and other severe forms of osteochondrodysplasia should be sought in neuraxial injury rather than attributed solely to pulmonary hypoplasia . 
pearson syndrome and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy in a patient with a deletion of mtdna . a patient is described who has features of pearson syndrome and who presented in the neonatal period with a hypoplastic anemia . he later developed hepatic , renal , and exocrine pancreatic dysfunction . at the age of 5 years he developed visual impairment , tremor , ataxia , proximal muscle weakness , external ophthalmoplegia , and a pigmentary retinopathy ( kearns-sayre syndrome ) . muscle biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of mitochondrial myopathy . analysis of mtdna from leukocytes and muscle showed mtdna heteroplasmy in both tissues , with one population of mtdna deleted by 4.9 kb . the deleted region was bridged by a 13-nucleotide sequence occurring as a direct repeat in normal mtdna . both pearson syndrome and kearns-sayre syndrome have been noted to be associated with deletions of mtdna ; they have not previously been described in the same patient . these observations indicate that the two disorders have the same molecular basis ; the different phenotypes are probably determined by the initial proportion of deleted mtdnas and modified by selection against them in different tissues . 
analysis of the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan core protein ( cspgcp ) gene in achondroplasia and pseudoachondroplasia . achondroplasia and pseudoachondroplasia are autosomal dominant skeletal dysplasias resulting in short-limbed dwarfism . histologic and ultrastructural studies of the cartilage in pseudoachondroplasia and in homozygous achondroplasia have suggested a structural abnormality in chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan ( cspg ) , a major structural protein in the extra-cellular matrix . the gene encoding cspg core protein ( cspgcp ) is thus a logical " candidate gene " for analysis in these conditions . cdna probes encoding cspgcp were used to identify restriction fragment length polymorphisms ( rflps ) in dna from a panel of control individuals . no gross alterations at the cspgcp locus were noted in dna from 37 individuals with achondroplasia and 5 individuals with pseudoachondroplasia . in addition , allelic frequencies of the rflps were not significantly different among controls and patients with either condition . in one three-generation family with achondroplasia , close linkage of the cspgcp locus and the skeletal dysplasia was excluded using a bgl ii polymorphism . similarly , in a three-generation family with pseudoachondroplasia , the cspgcp gene was not tightly linked to the disease phenotype . these results indicate that mutations at the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan core protein locus do not cause achondroplasia or pseudoachondroplasia in these families . 
multiple orbital tumors were cavernous hemangiomas . two distinct masses in the left orbit were incidentally found in a 48-year-old woman during a computed tomographic scan done to evaluate neurologic complaints . initial diagnostic considerations focused on a lymphoproliferative disorder or other systemic disease . orbitotomy revealed two discrete tumors , both cavernous hemangiomas . although uncommon , cavernous hemangioma should be considered in the differential diagnosis of the patient with multiple orbital lesions . 
acute rheumatic fever in west virginia . not just a disease of children . rheumatic fever is a poststreptococcal disease that is receiving renewed attention by the medical community . we describe a recent increase in the number of observed cases of acute rheumatic fever ( arf ) in west virginia . this is the fifth report of a recent increase in the incidence of arf in the ohio valley area in the last 4 years . in contrast to the other reports , nearly two thirds of our cases of arf were in adults , more than half of whom had suffered previous bouts of arf . in these adults with recurrences , none was taking prophylactic penicillin at the time of presentation . carditis was present in seven adults , two without a history of carditis . arthritis was present in all adult patients . these data indicate a possible geographic phenomenon related to the increased number of observed cases of arf and document that arf is not simply a disease of childhood . furthermore , our findings highlight the need for extended penicillin prophylaxis for secondary prevention of arf , especially for those with an increased risk of acquiring a streptococcal upper respiratory tract infection . 
treatment of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand ( ' trigger finger ' ) with corticosteroids . a prospective study of the response to local injection . we developed a protocol to maximize medical therapy for " trigger finger . " fifty-eight patients with 77 episodes of flexor tenosynovitis of the hand that was resistant to rest , therapy with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs , and/or splinting were treated with single or multiple injections of depo-methylprednisolone acetate or triamcinolone acetonide . patients were prospectively followed up for an average of 4.6 years . results showed that symptoms and signs resolved in 61 % after a single injection . recurrent episodes , after prolonged pain-free intervals , occurred in 27 % and were effectively re-treated with injection . in 12 % of cases , either injection failed or early recurrence required surgical release . local adverse reactions to injection , including pain at the injection site , stiffness , ecchymosis , or atrophy of subcutaneous fat , were self-limited . no episodes of postinjection infection or tendon rupture occurred . the medical management of flexor tenosynovitis with local corticosteroid injection ( s ) is effective in nearly 90 % of cases and is free from serious adverse reactions . 
gonococcal osteomyelitis . case report and review of the literature . we report the 11th case of gonococcal osteomyelitis in the postantibiotic era . this case demonstrates the classic presentation of osteomyelitis associated with gonorrhea , a subacute illness with minimal systemic symptoms . in addition , we present radiologic evidence of the pathogenesis of this unusual osteomyelitis from a contiguous joint infection . 
expanded clinical evaluation of lovastatin ( excel ) study results . i. efficacy in modifying plasma lipoproteins and adverse event profile in 8245 patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia in the expanded clinical evaluation of lovastatin ( excel ) study , a multicenter , double-blind , diet - and placebo-controlled trial , we evaluated the efficacy and safety of lovastatin in 8245 patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia . patients were randomly assigned to receive placebo or lovastatin at a dosage of 20 mg once daily , 40 mg once daily , 20 mg twice daily , or 40 mg twice daily for 48 weeks . lovastatin produced sustained , dose-related ( p less than .001 ) changes as follows ( for dosages of 20 to 80 mg/d ) : decreased low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol level ( 24 % to 40 % ) , increased high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol level ( 6.6 % to 9.5 % ) , decreased total cholesterol level ( 17 % to 29 % ) , and decreased triglyceride level ( 10 % to 19 % ) . the national cholesterol education program 's low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol level goal of less than 4.14 mmol/l ( 160 mg/dl ) was achieved by 80 % to 96 % of patients , while the less than 3.36 mmol/l ( 130 mg/dl ) goal was achieved by 38 % to 83 % of patients . the difference between lovastatin and placebo in the incidence of clinical adverse experiences requiring discontinuation was small , ranging from 1.2 % at 20 mg twice daily to 1.9 % at 80 mg/d . successive transaminase level elevations greater than three times the upper limit of normal were observed in 0.1 % of patients receiving placebo and 20 mg/d of lovastatin , increasing to 0.9 % in those receiving 40 mg/d and 1.5 % in those receiving 80 mg/d of lovastatin ( p less than .001 for trend ) . myopathy , defined as muscle symptoms with a creatine kinase elevation greater than 10 times the upper limit of normal , was found in only one patient ( 0.1 % ) receiving 40 mg once daily and four patients ( 0.2 % ) receiving 80 mg/d of lovastatin . thus , lovastatin , when added after an adequate trial of a prudent diet , is a highly effective and generally well-tolerated treatment for patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia . 
muscle conditioning in late poliomyelitis . to study the adaptability of postpolio muscles , 12 subjects ( mean age 54 years ) participated in a high-intensity resistance exercise program . seventy-five percent met the criteria for postpolio syndrome . isometric and isokinetic strength and muscle endurance were measured . polio-affected muscles were identified in muscle biopsies . the biopsies were also used for measurements of enzymatic activities and for histochemical and histopathologic analyses . pretraining strength values were less than half those of healthy controls , mean fiber areas were twice those of healthy controls , and oxidative enzyme activity was low . after training , a significant increase in isometric ( mean 29 % ) and isokinetic ( mean 24 % ) strength was observed and maintained for some time . this demonstrates remaining adaptability in muscles already compensated from long-standing polio . 
corticosteroid injections in adhesive capsulitis : investigation of their value and site . forty-eight patients with frozen shoulder for less than six months were assigned at random to receive three shoulder injections into the subacromial bursa or glenohumeral joint at weekly intervals . the treatment groups were ( 1 ) intra-articular methylprednisolone and lidocaine , ( 2 ) intrabursal methylprednisolone and lidocaine , ( 3 ) intra-articular lidocaine , ( 4 ) intrabursal lidocaine . the same physical therapy program was carried out for all patients . assessments of pain and range of motion were performed by a physical therapist who was uninformed about the nature of the injection therapy . there was no significant difference in outcome between intrabursal injection and intra-articular injection . injection of steroid with lidocaine had no advantage over lidocaine alone in restoring shoulder motion , but partial , transient pain relief occurred in two thirds of the steroid-treated patients . 
open depressed skull fracture missed on computed tomography : a case report . a case of an open depressed skull fracture that was missed on standard computed tomographic ( ct ) scan is presented . the fracture was seen on a ct generated lateral scout film , and after repositioning the gantry , further ct images clearly showed the fracture and underlying brain injury . the authors recommend that all patients with head trauma undergoing head ct have either a ct generated lateral scout film or a lateral skull radiograph to assess the vertex of the skull , an area poorly visualized on standard axial images . 
topical treatment of necrotic foot ulcers in diabetic patients : a comparative trial of duoderm and mezinc . an open randomized controlled study was carried out of 44 diabetic patients with necrotic foot ulcers treated with adhesive zinc oxide tape ( mezinc ) or with an adhesive occlusive hydrocolloid dressing ( duoderm ) . fourteen of the 21 patients treated with mezinc had their necrotic ulcers improved by at least 50 % compared to six out of 21 with the hydrocolloid dressing ( p less than 0.025 ) . fifteen patients showed an increase in the area of necrosis during the course of the 5-week study and of these , 10 had been treated with the hydrocolloid dressing . 
reduction of graft failure by a monoclonal antibody ( anti-lfa-1 cd11a ) after hla nonidentical bone marrow transplantation in children with immunodeficiencies , osteopetrosis , and fanconi 's anemia : a european group for immunodeficiency/european group for bone marrow transplantation report . forty-six infants and children suffering from either inherited immunodeficiency disorders ( wiskott-aldrich syndrome , functional t-cell immunodeficiency with or without hla class ii expression deficiency ) , malignant osteopetrosis , or fanconi 's anemia received hla-nonidentical bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) from related donors . bone marrow was t-cell depleted to reduce the risk of graft-versus-host disease ( gvhd ) . to prevent graft failure , a mouse monoclonal antibody specific for the cd11a-lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 ( lfa-1 ) molecule was infused into the patients . eleven patients received five infusions of 0.1 mg/kg every other day from day -3 to +5 . thirty-five patients received 0.2 mg/kg daily from day -3 to +6 . the overall sustained engraftment rate was 72 % instead of 26.1 % in a historical control group of 24 patients similarly treated except for the infusion of the anti-lfa-1 antibody . no late rejection occurred . the t-cell depletion method ( e-rosetting or campath im plus complement ) resulted in different rate of engraftment ( 83.3 % v 57.9 % , respectively , p = .05 ) . engraftment rate was slightly but not significantly influenced by the degree of hla incompatibility between donor and recipient . acute gvhd of grade ii or more occurred in 35.5 % of the patients and the rate of chronic gvhd was 12.9 % . the overall actuarial survival rate with a functional graft is 47.3 % with a mean follow-up of 28.0 months for patients with immunodeficiency and osteopetrosis , while none of the four patients with fanconi 's anemia survived . the development of full t-cell functions took on the average 6 months and of full b-cell functions 10 months . significant infectious problems developed in the majority of the patients during the posttransplant course . epstein-barr virus-induced b-cell proliferative syndromes were observed in seven patients , six of whom had wiskott-aldrich syndrome . correction of immunodeficiency was comparable in terms of kinetics and quality with that observed in patients with severe combined immunodeficiency undergoing hla-nonidentical bmt . correction of osteopetrosis appears not to be different from what has been observed after hla-identical bmt . the in vivo use of an anti-cd11a-lfa-1 antibody as an additional immunosuppressive therapy in hla-nonidentical bmt may thus promote engraftment and survival with correction of the primary disease in a significant number of patients with life-threatening immunodeficiency and osteopetrosis , but not with fanconi 's anemia . 
cytogenetic evidence of clonality in a case of pigmented villonodular synovitis . pigmented villonodular synovitis is an uncommon benign lesion that is characterized by diffuse synovial proliferation . based on animal models , this lesion has been conjectured previously to be reactive in nature . in this report , the authors present the histologic and cytogenetic findings for a pigmented villonodular synovitis that was excised from the right knee of a 47-year-old man . trisomy 7 was observed in 24 of 75 ( 35 % ) metaphases obtained from short-term culture of cells from this tumor . these findings suggest that some cases of pigmented villonodular synovitis represent clonal , neoplastic proliferations . 
chondrosarcomas of the synovium . chondrosarcoma of the synovium , either primary or secondary to synovial chondromatosis , is rare . ten cases of synovial chondrosarcoma were studied ( four from the mayo clinic files and six from the authors ' consultation files ) . two were considered primary . in five cases there was evidence of preexisting synovial chondromatosis , and in the remaining three , there was a suggestion of preexisting disease . several histologic features were found that were helpful to diagnose malignancy . the most important ones were loss of the " clustering " growth pattern typical of synovial chondromatosis , myxoid change in the matrix , areas of necrosis , and spindling at the periphery of chondroid lobules . pulmonary metastasis developed in five of nine patients ; three of these patients died . 
late effects of treatment for wilms ' tumor . a report from the national wilms ' tumor study group . the national wilms ' tumor study ( nwts ) was initiated in 1969 . one of its objectives was to modulate treatments according to risk factors to minimize the number and severity of treatment-related short-term and long-term iatrogenic complications . the nwts has therefore incorporated a long term follow-up study ( ltfs ) within its framework to monitor late effects . the ltfs is confined to relapse-free survivors alive 5 years or longer after initial surgery , and data are collected using specifically designed forms . a total of 787 patients registered on nwts-1 or nwts-2 ( 1969 to 1979 ) were eligible , of whom 680 ( 86 % ) were available for analysis regarding musculoskeletal , cardiovascular , and neuropsychologic status , and the presence of benign and malignant tumors . patients with early-stage disease who were treated with radiation had scoliosis reported , along with other musculoskeletal abnormalities ( 32 versus 2 ) , nearly seven times as often as did the members of the cohort population who did not undergo radiation ( 35 of 57 versus 5 of 53 , respectively ) . the difference in cardiovascular problems recorded in survivors who did and did not receive adriamycin ( adria laboratories , columbus , oh ) ( 2.4 versus 1.1 per 100-person years at risk ) had borderline statistical significance ( p = 0.06 ) . no excess in neuropsychologic events was reported for those given the neurotoxin vincristine . when considering patients with disease of all stages , all 5 second malignant tumors occurred in the 623 patients who underwent radiation ( rt patients ) ; benign tumors were also more frequent in rt patients than in those patients who did not undergo radiation ( 41 of 486 or 8 % versus 4 of 194 or 2 % ) . continuing study of this unique body of patients is needed , especially for those given adriamycin , because of the known long interval needed for latent cardiomyopathy to become clinically manifest in some patients . 
multidisciplinary treatment of primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma . a single-institution experience . orbital rhabdomyosarcoma accounts for one-fourth of the primary tumors in the head and neck region . modern treatment modalities have led to a 2-year survival rate of about 90 % in these patients . however , new therapeutic trials are designed to reduce complications and salvage more than 90 % of orbital cases . between 1979 and 1990 , 12 children affected by primary orbital rhabdomyosarcoma have been diagnosed and treated at the university of naples . ten of them have been uniformly treated by biopsy , followed by immediate radiation and combined chemotherapy . all 12 patients are alive and free of detectable disease , from a minimum of 7 months to a maximum of 123 months after diagnosis . in all children , ocular structures have been spared and the complications observed until now have been few . the above results suggest that the association of immediate radiation therapy and chemotherapy might represent an optimal tool for treatment of orbital rhabdomyosarcoma . 
bracing for patellar instability . knee pain secondary to problems with patellar tracking is common . the initial treatment for these problems is conservative . patellar orthotics have been used extensively to treat a variety of extensor mechanism problems . millions of health care dollars are spent annually on the use of these braces . there are many different patellar orthotics on the market today . the use and design of most of these devices are unclear and often lack a solid biomechanical foundation . the practical mechanical function of these braces is to reduce the lateral displacement of abnormal patellofemoral tracking . orthotics that are designed and tested using practical biomechanical principles for applying a medially directed force to the patella seem to have a role in treating patients with knee pain secondary to patellar malalignment and instability . well-defined and controlled clinical studies of the use of patellar braces are lacking . 
t-plasty modification of the bankart procedure for multidirectional instability of the anterior and inferior types . forty patients who had a diagnosis of multidirectional instability of forty-two shoulders had a modified bankart operation in which a t-shaped incision was made in the anterior portion of the capsule , with advancement of the inferior flap superiorly and of the superior flap medially . all of the patients had been injured during athletic activities . some degree of anterior labral injury was present in thirty-eight of the forty-two shoulders . half of the patients had generalized ligamentous laxity . the patients were followed for an average of three years ( range , two to seven years ) . four patients had episodes of instability after the operation . three had a single episode of posterior subluxation during throwing , one had recurrent posterior subluxation that subsequently was treated by posterior stabilization , and one had anterior subluxation while he was diving from a high board . the average loss of external rotation after the operation was 5 degrees with the arm at the side and 4 degrees with the arm abducted 90 degrees . satisfaction of the patient was rated excellent for forty ( 95 per cent ) of the shoulders , good for one shoulder , and fair for one shoulder . however , throwing athletes found that they were unable to throw a ball with as much speed as before the operation . 
familial predisposition for herniation of a lumbar disc in patients who are less than twenty-one years old . the parents of sixty-three patients who were less than twenty-one years old and who had operatively confirmed herniation of a lumbar disc were interviewed regarding a history of sever back pain , sciatica , and herniated disc , to determine whether aggregation of herniation of a lumbar disc occurs in families of patients in this young age-group . the parents of sixty-three additional patients who had a non-spinal orthopaedic diagnosis ( control group ) were matched for age and sex with the study group and were given the same interview . of the patients who had herniation of a lumbar disc and were less than twenty-one years old , 32 per cent had a positive family history for that lesion compared with 7 per cent of the control group . the relative risk of development of herniation of a lumbar disc before the age of twenty-one years is estimated to be approximately five times greater in patients who have a positive family history . the results indicate a familial basis for herniation of a lumbar disc in patients who are less than twenty-one years old . 
magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder . sensitivity , specificity , and predictive value . the sensitivity , specificity , and predictive value of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of lesions of the rotator cuff , glenohumeral capsule , and glenoid labrum were evaluated in ninety-one patients and fifteen asymptomatic volunteers . magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated 100 per cent sensitivity and 95 per cent specificity in the diagnosis of complete tears , and it consistently predicted the size of the tear of the rotator cuff . there was a definite correlation between atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle and the size of a complete , chronic tear of the rotator cuff . the sensitivity and specificity of magnetic resonance imaging in the differentiation of tendinitis from degeneration of the cuff were 82 and 85 per cent , and in the differentiation of a normal tendon from one affected by tendinitis with signs of impingement the sensitivity and specificity were 93 and 87 per cent . the formation of spurs around the acromion and acromiocalvicular joint correlated highly with increased age of the patient and with chronic disease of the rotator cuff . the sensitivity and specificity of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of labral tears associated with glenohumeral instability were 88 and 93 per cent . the study showed that high-resolution magnetic-resonance imaging is an excellent non-invasive tool in the diagnosis of lesions of the rotator cuff and glenohumeral instability . 
tests for posterolateral instability of the knee in normal subjects . results of examination under anesthesia . an apparently normal knee was examined in each of 100 subjects while they were under general or epidural anesthesia for an unrelated operation . the lachman , anterior drawer , posterior drawer , and pivot-shift tests were negative in all knees . all knees were stable to varus and valgus stress at both 0 and 30 degrees of flexion . the external-rotation recurvatum test also was negative in all knees . a positive reversed pivot-shift sign was present in 35 per cent of the knees , suggesting that it may not signify abnormality , at least not without a negative test on the contralateral knee . the results of the posterolateral drawer test were variable , difficult to quantify , and did not always have a firm end-point . the amount of maximum external rotation of the tibia , measured from the reference line of the medial border of the foot , was extremely variable at both 30 and 90 degrees of flexion of the knee . external rotation , as determined by this reference , was slightly greater ( averaging 9 degrees ) at 90 than at 30 degrees of flexion . the normal range of maximum external rotation of the foot was 10 to 45 degrees at 30 degrees of flexion of the knee and 15 to 70 degrees at 90 degrees of flexion . the presence of a large angle of external rotation and a positive reversed pivot-shift sign correlated strongly with increased ligamentous laxity and mild varus alignment of the knee . 
skeletal involvement in children who have chronic granulomatous disease . chronic granulomatous disease is a rare disorder of the oxidative metabolism of the white blood cells that results in immunodeficiency . in a retrospective review of the records of forty-two patients who had chronic granulomatous disease , we identified thirteen patients who had a total of twenty skeletal infections . two types of infection were noted : type 1 , which resulted from a direct spread of the infection from an adjacent focus , usually of fungus or mycobacteria , and type 2 , which resulted from hematogenous spread , usually of nocardia or more common bacteria . the thoracic vertebrae , ribs , and metatarsals were the most commonly involved bones . all four patients in whom the vertebrae were involved had a type-1 fungal infection . paresis developed in three of these patients , and two of them died . antibiotics alone effectively eradicated the infection in only one patient . wide operative debridement combined with administration of antibiotics was the most successful treatment . comprehensive preoperative imaging and several cultures are necessary to locate the infection in the bone and to identify the organism . 
posterior transfer of the adductors in children who have cerebral palsy . a long-term study . seventy-eight posterior transfers of the adductors of the hip in forty-two children who has spastic cerebral palsy were reviewed an average of 5.7 years after the operation ( range , two to 14.6 years ) . the results were assessed on the basis of the patient 's ability to walk , the range of motion of the affected hip or hips , and the radiographic measurements . in 88 per cent of the patients , the transfer was successful in improving or maintaining abduction , extension , functional walking , and stability of the hip . the failures were all in patients who were unable to walk and who had spastic quadriplegia . tenotomy of the iliopsoas tendon at the time of the transfer procedure resulted in an improved range of motion of the hip . 
deformities of the hip in adults who have sickle-cell disease and had avascular necrosis in childhood . a natural history of fifty-two patients . we report the natural course of the hip in fifty-two patients ( ninety-five hips ) who had sickle-cell disease and had had avascular necrosis in childhood . there were twenty-one african , twenty-one west indian , and ten mediterranean patients . at the most recent follow-up examination ( at an average duration of nineteen years after the onset of the disease ) , 80 per cent of the hips that had been affected by avascular necrosis during childhood were painful and had permanent damage with regard to decreased mobility , limb-length discrepancy , and an abnormal gait . when the patients were evaluated , at an average age of thirty-one years , fifteen hips ( 16 per cent ) had had an operation for progressive disability and sixty ( 63 per cent ) had major problems because of pain . of the twenty hips ( 21 per cent ) that were not painful , five were in patients who had an abnormal gait , with decreased agility . the mean iowa hip-rating score at the most recent follow-up examination was 73 points ( range , 30 to 100 points ) . correlations were found between the hip score and the patient 's age at the onset of the disease and at the latest follow-up , between the hip score and degenerative changes in the hip , and between degenerative changes and radiographic evidence of deformity of the hip . 
systemic mastocytosis presenting as osteoporosis : a clinical and histomorphometric study . ten patients with systemic mastocytosis ( sm ) were evaluated for their metabolic bone disease ( 4 men and 6 women ; mean + / - sd , 59 + / - 13 yr ) . all patients presented with generalized osteopenia and/or atraumatic vertebral compression fractures . three patients had long-standing urticaria pigmentosa ; in these , the diagnosis of cutaneous mastocytosis had been established by skin biopsy . one of the 3 and 2 of the other 7 individuals had symptoms suggestive of sm . although six patients had previously undergone decalcified bone marrow trephine core biopsy ( dbmb ) , findings were consistent with sm in only 2 of them . x-ray survey revealed generalized osteopenia in all 10 patients and vertebral compression fractures in 9 . no patient had sclerotic bone lesions . histological findings of undecalcified transiliac crest biopsy ( utbb ) specimens from 9 patients ( 5 patients underwent both dbmb and utbb , 4 underwent only utbb , and 1 had only dbmb ) disclosed bone marrow that contained nodules characteristic of mast cell granulomas and numerous scattered oval - and spindle-shaped mast cells . the trabecular bone contained abundant newly synthesized bone matrix and a significant increase in osteoblastic , osteoclastic , and resorptive surfaces . dynamic histomorphometric parameters revealed a significantly increased mineral apposition rate . our study suggests that sm may be a more frequent cause of osteoporosis than previously recognized . generalized osteopenia with compression fractures may be the only presentation of sm . undecalcified bone biopsy is useful in the diagnosis of sm . accelerated bone remodeling is a characteristic histomorphometric feature of sm with diffuse osteopenia . 
effect of a single infusion of aminohydroxypropylidene on calcium and bone metabolism in healthy volunteers monitored during 2 months . recently , bisphosphonates have been used to prevent postmenopausal bone loss . as the effects of bisphosphonates on normal bone metabolism are unknown , 3-amino-1-hydroxypropylidene-1 ,1 - diphosphonate ( apd ) was studied in healthy subjects . the effects of a single 20-mg apd infusion on biochemical parameters of calcium and bone metabolism were investigated during 2 months in 10 healthy male volunteers . this single moderate dose of apd reduced biochemical parameters of bone resorption during the time of follow-up . after 2 months , urinary hydroxyproline excretion was still below the basal level . the decreased serum calcium levels did not return to basal values . biochemical parameters of bone formation , serum alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin , showed a slight increase during the first month after stimulation of the parathyroids and a corresponding increase in serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d. these formation parameters decreased thereafter , probably representing coupling between bone resorption and bone formation . 
osteomalacia in hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria : a correlative clinical-histomorphometric study . we characterized the bone disease of transilial biopsy specimens from children with hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria ( hhrh ) and genetically related asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects . all hhrh patients showed irregular mineralization fronts , markedly elevated osteoid surface and seam width , increased number of osteoid lamellae , and prolonged mineralization lag time . these findings are consistent with a mineralization defect and indicate unambiguously that the bone disease in hhrh is osteomalacia . the only abnormality seen in the asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects was slightly extended osteoid surface . parametric and nonparametric statistical analyses performed on a pooled sample of hhrh patients and asymptomatic hypercalciuric subjects revealed a very high inverse correlation and a tight linear relationship between serum phosphorus and osteoid parameters . serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d , which is low in other forms of hereditary hypophosphatemia and osteomalacia , is elevated in hhrh and correlated positively with osteoid parameters and the mineralization lag time . serum alkaline phosphatase showed similar relationships . these results as well as the clinical , biochemical , and radiological remission of bone disease consequent to phosphate therapy strongly suggest that in hhrh 1 ) hypophosphatemia alone is sufficient to cause osteomalacia ; and 2 ) the elevation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d reflects the degree of the primary renal phosphate leak , but is not involved in the pathogenesis of the bone disease . 
spinal epidural abscess : an unusual complication of a duodenal ulcer . a 50-year-old man had several months of progressively worse low-back pain associated with constitutional symptoms and a history of retroperitoneal tumor and bleeding duodenal ulcer . initial evaluation suggested a lumbar spine tumor , but myelography confirmed the presence of an epidural abscess . further evaluation revealed a duodeno-spinal fistula at the site of the previous duodenal ulcer , which proved to be the cause of the abscess . 
estrogen and progestin therapy to prevent osteoporosis : attitudes and practices of general internists and gynecologists . study objective : to assess combined hormone therapy ( cht ) prescribing patterns , possible impediments to cht prescribing , and use of endometrial biopsy to monitor therapy . design : mailed questionnaire survey . subjects : gynecologists and general internists at two boston teaching hospitals . measurements and main results : based on a 71 % response rate , 72 % of internists and 100 % of gynecologists reported ever having prescribed cht . almost 60 % of internists , compared with 8 % of gynecologists , reported that over half of their female patients were older than 50 years of age . by logistic regression analysis of the internists ' data , female gender of physician ( odds ratio 11.0 ) , belief that cht decreases myocardial infarction risk ( odds ratio 3.4 ) , and knowledge of cht 's benefits and risks ( odds ratio 2.8 ) were associated with prescribing . endometrial biopsy was performed by a majority of physicians only when unexpected vaginal bleeding occurred and in cases of unclear menopausal transition . physicians who were concerned about litigation were seven times more likely to perform baseline endometrial biopsy . conclusions : in the authors ' sample , as well as nationally , internists are more likely to provide care for menopausal women . among internists , gender and knowledge are strongly associated with cht prescribing . these findings have important educational implications if internists are to routinely provide information and counseling to women about osteoporosis and cht . 
impairment of specific host defense mechanisms in patients with chronic post-traumatic osteomyelitis . we studied both in vivo and in vitro specific host defense mechanisms in patients suffering from chronic post-traumatic osteomyelitis ( n = 26 ) . the cell-mediated immunity in vivo was impaired as indicated by the reduced reactivity in the delayed type hypersensitivity skin test . the concanavalin a or phytohemagglutinin-induced t-cell proliferation in vitro was markedly decreased in comparison to healthy donors . in contrast , b-cell proliferation stimulated by staphylococcus aureus cowan i was not altered . while the absolute lymphocyte counts and the percentage of t , b , and o cells were within the normal range , nine out of the 26 patients showed a significantly diminished ratio of cd4 + and cd8 + t cells . humoral immunity in the patients was less affected as assessed by the unchanged serum levels of immunoglobulins ( ig ) . however , the t-cell dependent polyclonal ig synthesis after in vitro stimulation with pokeweed mitogen was suppressed . our results provide evidence that cell-mediated immune functions are predominantly impaired in patients with post-traumatic osteomyelitis which may contribute to the persistence of the localized bone infection . 
schwartz-jampel syndrome with dominant inheritance . the schwartz-jampel syndrome ( sjs ) is a rare congenital multisystem disorder of unknown pathogenesis which is characterized by distinct faces , skeletal deformities , joint contractures , short stature , muscle hypertrophy , clinical myotonia , and continuous muscle fiber activity . the inheritance pattern of sjs has been assumed to be autosomal recessive . we report the occurrence of the classic sjs syndrome in both a father and son in a non-consanguineous family , suggesting that sjs has the potential for a dominant pattern of inheritance . 
polymyositis , pulmonary fibrosis and autoantibodies to aminoacyl-trna synthetase enzymes . the clinical and laboratory features of 29 patients who had one of three anti-aminoacyl-trna synthetase autoantibodies , anti-jo1 ( histidyl-trna synthetase ) , anti-pl12 ( alanyl-trna synthetase ) or anti-pl7 ( threonyl-trna synthetase ) were analysed and compared with the findings of other published reports . these autoantibodies were found to be associated with a syndrome delineated by inflammatory myositis ( 24 patients ) and pulmonary fibrosis ( 23 of 29 ) , but also including inflammatory arthritis ( 26/29 ) , keratoconjunctivitis sicca ( 17/29 ) , sclerodactyly ( 21/29 ) , raynaud 's phenomenon ( 27/29 ) , hepatitis ( 8/29 ) and subcutaneous calcinosis ( 7/29 ) . the most important clinical determinant of outcome in this group of patients was the severity of the interstitial pulmonary disease . no patient fulfilled the classification criteria for systemic lupus erythematosus , although 10 had autoantibodies to extractable nuclear antigens including ro , la , rnp , and sm , and two patients had anti-dsdna antibodies . although it seems unlikely that anti-aminoacyl-trna synthetase antibodies are directly responsible for causing disease , they may provide an important clue to the aetiology of this unusual syndrome . 
dialysis arthropathy : a clinical , biochemical , radiological and histological study of 36 patients . out of a population of 97 haemodialysis patients , 36 patients with dialysis arthropathy were identified . dialysis arthropathy is a chronic symmetrical polyarthritis which affected 97 per cent of the patients who had been undergoing cuprophane haemodialysis for more than 10 years . it commonly affected the shoulders , hips , hands , knees and wrists , worsening with time and extending to other joints . fifty-eight per cent of the patients complained of morning stiffness and 47 per cent complained of exacerbation of shoulder pain during or after haemodialysis . half of the patients also suffered from carpal tunnel syndrome , which recurred and was associated with a long-lasting disability . the most common radiological abnormality was periarticular bone cysts , followed by articular erosions and a destructive spondyloarthropathy , but clinical symptoms were more common than radiological signs . patients with dialysis arthropathy had a higher c-reactive protein level than patients without arthropathy ( 18.6 mg/l versus 11.4 mg/l ) , indicative of an inflammatory process . some of the clinical manifestations of the disease correlated with levels of c-reactive protein and ferritin . serum ferritin levels correlated strongly with the units of blood transfused in the past five years ( rs = 0.83 ) , and the logarithm of ferritin level correlated weakly with c-reactive protein ( r = 0.32 ) . haemarthroses were documented in 19 per cent of patients . mean serum beta 2-microglobulin was elevated in the patients with ( 57.3 mg/l ) and without arthropathy ( 50.7 mg/l ) , and there was no difference in the parathormone or aluminium levels between these groups . articular tissue was obtained in 25 patients ; beta 2-microglobulin amyloid was present in 24 . larger deposits were present in the capsular tissue , and these appeared to replace collagen bundles in eight cases . amyloid deposits replaced the lining layer in six cases . it is likely therefore that amyloid disrupts normal joint function by replacing normal joint tissue . mild chronic synovitis with haemosiderin deposition were found in approximately 60 per cent of cases . these findings suggest that amyloid derived from beta 2-microglobulin has a primary role in the pathogenesis of dialysis arthropathy , but there was also evidence of inflammatory processes . it is suggested that iron overload or haemarthroses might contribute to the inflammation , but other factors , such as dialysis-related bioincompatibility reactions , may also have a role . 
clinical value of magnetic resonance imaging for cervical myelopathy . the magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) findings in 115 cases of cervical myelopathy , 121 cases of cervical radiculopathy , and 64 cases of neck pain with no neurologic deficit were prospectively studied to investigate the clinical value of mri for cervical myelopathy . the mri findings in the t1-weighted sagittal projection were classified into four groups according to the degree of the compressed deformities of the cervical cord . the degree of compression of the cervical cord on mri findings showed a significant correlation with the severity of myelopathy , the anteroposterior diameter of the spinal column , and the degree of compression of the dural tube in the myelograms ( p less than 0.01 ) . fifty-one patients of cervical myelopathy had undergone both preoperative and postoperative mri . of these , the spinal canal of 47 patients that was well decompressed was recognized according to plain computed tomography ( ct ) . however , 24 ( 51 % ) of these 47 patients showed on mri a deformity in the spinal cord amounting to cord atrophy . the correlation between the clinical function of the spinal cord and the recovery of the cord deformity on mri at the operative levels was accurately investigated in 34 patients who had no cord deformities in the adjacent intervertebral levels . twenty patients with cord atrophy had slightly poor clinical results , although no significant difference was found between these 20 and 14 patients with recovery in the cord deformities . from these results , it was evident that t1-weighted mri is useful in the accurate diagnosis of compression myelopathy , in accurately deciding the level of the disease focus , and in the accurate assessment of the surgical results . 
motion analysis of the cervical spine in athetoid cerebral palsy . extension-flexion motion . frequently instability and premature onset of spondylosis of the cervical spine are found in athetoid cerebral palsy ( cp ) patients . these structural abnormalities appear to be related to athetoid motion of the neck in cp . through motion analysis , the authors aimed to clarify the abnormalities of cervical motion that could precipitate structural abnormalities . the gross characteristic feature of cervical motion in athetoid cp is " whip movement . " both velocity and acceleration during extension-flexion motion were greater than in normal subjects , especially at the upper cervical levels . also , a sudden increase in velocity and acceleration occurred during rapid motions at certain levels , followed by a larger range of motion of the cervical spine . such kinematic abnormalities were thought to generate a greater shearing force and bending moment exerted on the corresponding cervical articulations-discs and facets . olisthetic instability often accompanied disc degeneration at the upper cervical levels . a large range of extension -- flexion motion of the cervical spine , analogous to a cantilever , caused a repeated bending moment of extraordinary magnitude and was regarded as a precipitative factor for disc degeneration and osteophytosis common at the middle and lower levels of the disc . 
identification of alpha-motor nerve fiber potentials in lumbar epidural space and its clinical significance . the alpha-efferent component of spinal root potentials ( srps ) was recorded in the lumbar epidural space stimulating the tibial and peroneal nerves for clinical diagnosis and clinical treatment . five normal volunteers and 15 clinical cases with lumbar disc herniation ( ldh ) were examined . the srp by the tibial nerve stimulation in the normal control group consisted of two kinds of potentials with different latency . simultaneous electromyogram ( emg ) recording from the stimulated muscles indicated that the shortest latency potential ( first potential ) was the ascending volley , including orthodromic afferent and antidromic alpha-efferent volleys ; and that the long latency potential ( second potential ) was the descending volley of reflexively evoked alpha-efferents by the group ia afferents . the component of alpha-efferent fiber potential was recorded in the following two methods by changing the intensity of stimulation : 1 ) identifying alpha-efferent components in the first potential and 2 ) recording the second potential . conduction blockage of spinal roots in 15 clinical cases was demonstrated as abnormal positivity and prolonged duration of the potentials . new methods were introduced to estimate two parameters quantitatively . the present study showed either of these signs in all patients tested . the examination was helpful to determine the level ( s ) of lumbar motor radiculopathies , and the extent of pathologic neuropathy . 
pathomechanism , pathogenesis , and results of treatment in cervical spondylotic myelopathy caused by dynamic canal stenosis . in this study , the pathomechanism and pathogenesis of dynamic canal stenosis caused by cervical instability in patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy and the validity of the concept of instability are clarified by analyzing the results of treatment in 53 cases . in cases of cervical spondylotic myelopathy caused by dynamic canal stenosis , the authors found that the posterior slide of the vertebral body occurs as a result of degeneration in the cervical spine due to aging changes , and that the dynamic sagittal diameter of the spinal canal decreases with an increase of the degree of posterior slide . this is followed by gradual aggravation of the clinical symptoms . continuous cervical traction was found to be the first choice of treatment . surgical treatment is indicated in cases in which the traction was ineffective , or even when it was effective , in cases in which the japanese orthopaedic association ( joa ) score remained low or when there was a tendency toward rapid aggravation of symptoms . it was demonstrated that the shorter the duration of the myelopathy , the better the results of treatment obtained . a limit of the dynamic sagittal diameter of the spinal canal of 12 mm was considered as valid . 
problems and solutions of pedicle screw plate fixation of lumbar spine . fifty-seven patients with low back pain and sciatica of various causes were reviewed with reference to problems associated with pedicle plate fixation of the lumbar spine . eleven percent of patients had neurologic problems postoperatively and 3.5 % ( two patients ) had severe sensory impairments . all patients had this complication in the early phases of the study . of 297 screws , 17 broke , ie , 5.7 % . these breakages occurred in 12 of 57 patients ( 21 % ) . in patients with spondylolisthesis , the degree of slip correction averaged 53 % postoperatively , which decreased to 35 % at the 1-year follow-up . slip angle was maintained after correction . pedicle screw plate fixation is an effective form of immobilization of the lumbar spine used in achieving arthrodesis . the surgeon must be fully trained in methodology . it is recommended that screw and plate materials be improved to prevent screw breakage . 
magnetic resonance imaging of lumbar disc herniation . comparison with myelography . fifty-three patients with surgically confirmed lumbar disc herniation at 55 levels were studied retrospectively to compare the diagnostic accuracy of high-field strength surface coil magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) with that of myelography . disc herniation was classified into three groups according to mri findings , namely , unilateral single-disc herniation , central single-disc herniation , and multilevel disc herniation . magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis of unilateral single-disc herniation was extremely reliable , so myelography was considered to be unnecessary . conversely , mri findings of central single-disc herniation and multilevel disc herniation were less definite , in that myelography was necessary in locating the disc causing symptoms . 
ultrasonic level diagnosis of lumbar disc herniation . although the use of diagnostic ultrasound to measure the spinal canal has been proposed , the value of ultrasound for lumbar disc herniation has not been yet fully assessed . the purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the effectiveness of ultrasound in the level diagnosis of herniated nucleus pulposus . prospective ultrasound examinations were performed on 80 consecutive patients with clinically suspected lumbar disc herniation . in 41 discs of those 40 patients with surgically confirmed lumbar disc herniation , there were 32 discs ( 78 % ) with true-positive ultrasound diagnoses , 37 discs ( 90 % ) with true-positive myelographic diagnoses , and 20 patients ( 50 % ) with true-positive neurologic diagnoses . conversely , ultrasound diagnoses showed positive echogram in 24 ( 60 % ) of 40 nonoperative patients . these results suggest that ultrasound is of value as an aid for diagnosing the level of lumbar disc herniation . 
the system and procedures of percutaneous intradiscal laser nucleotomy . since 1986 , percutaneous intradiscal laser nucleotomy ( piln ) has been studied in the authors ' laser laboratory . the purpose of this report is to develop piln as an alternative to chemonucleolysis and percutaneous discectomy , which are currently applied , and to establish a safe , easy , accurate and short-time therapy method for lumbar disc herniation . after laser irradiation , intradiscal pressures ( idp ) decreased and the nucleus pulposus was gradually replaced with cartilaginous fibrous tissue . the evaluation of heat distribution with thermocouples and thermography was done to determine safe optimum irradiating conditions and to develop a new double-lumen needle and a bare quartz fiber . neodymium-yttrium-aluminum-garnet ( nd-yag ) laser devices have been improved for easy and safe use , and a new tip type pressure transducer has been made for improved therapeutic results using this new method . 
postoperative lumbar spinal instability occurring or progressing secondary to laminectomy . the manifestations and pathomechanism of postoperative lumbar spinal instability , occurring or progressing secondary to laminectomy , was clarified by means of functional radiographic analysis in a series of 46 patients over 40 years of age . the relation between instability and the clinical symptoms also is discussed . in patients under 60 years of age , instability at the operated level tended to appear in cases of wide laminectomy more often than in cases of partial laminectomy . occurrence or progress of instability seems to be promoted by resection of the posterior spinal elements rather than the disc . it is further considered that the postoperative aggravation of clinical symptoms may be influenced not only by instability , but also by the other factors . 
unstable lumbar spine without hypermobility in postlaminectomy cases . mechanism of symptoms and effect of spinal fusion with and without spinal instrumentation . the morbid conditions of unstable lumbar spine that are not associated with hypermobility in postlaminectomy cases were studied . the dura and the nerve roots with adhesion could be affected by minimal movement of the spine , which seemed to be the mechanism of symptoms of instability without hypermobility . the effects of spinal instrumentation on this particular instability were studied . the spinal instrumentation provides instantaneous rigid fixation , and maintains it until fusion is obtained , which might prevent adhesion , new bone formation , and re-stenosis . spinal instrumentation seemed to be the effective treatment for this particular instability . 
lumbar trapezoid plate for lumbar spondylolisthesis . a clinical study on preoperative and postoperative instability . the authors studied the effects of a " lumbar trapezoid plate " ( spinal plate and pedicle screwing ) , performed for lumbar spondylolisthesis , observing the effect on the remaining adjacent discs with regard to preoperative and postoperative instability . the authors examined changes in preoperative and postoperative lumbar rom ( range of motion ) , displacement of motor unit levels , and occurrence of instability in the remaining discs , such as horizontal and rotational displacement , in 26 patients who were followed up for a mean of 29 postoperative months ; 13 patients had spondylolytic spondylolisthesis and 13 patients degenerative spondylolisthesis . the authors studied the effects of the fused vertebral angle and reduction of spondylolisthesis on the remaining upper and lower adjacent discs and the preoperative and postoperative fused disc heights . intervertebral fusion must affect the remaining adjacent discs , but compensatory function of the remaining motor unit level was more influenced by the fused intervertebral angle than by repositioning of the spondylolisthesis . fusion at a physiologically lordotic position is quite necessary . for this purpose , it is considered important to prevent grafted bones of the posterior lumbar interbody fusion ( plif ) from collapse and to maintain the achieved alignment of the lumbar spine . 
natural history of degenerative spondylolisthesis . pathogenesis and natural course of the slippage . to clarify the natural course of degenerative spondylolisthesis , the mechanism and progression of disk slippage were studied clinically and radiographically in 40 patients . progressive slippage was observed in 12 patients ( 30 % ) . no progression of slippage was noted in patients who showed narrowing of the intervertebral disk , spur formation , subcartilaginous sclerosis , or ossification of ligaments . these suggest that the mechanisms of spinal restabilization prevent progression of the disease . general joint laxity was observed in many patients ( 65 % ) , and this was believed to be involved in the pathogenic mechanism of this disease . there was no correlation between the clinical symptoms and progression of slippage . these findings suggest that careful consideration of the natural mechanisms of spinal restabilization as well as the natural course of the disease is important . 
long-term results of anterior interbody fusion for treatment of degenerative spondylolisthesis . thirty-nine patients , 34 women and five men , underwent anterior decompression and interbody fusion for degenerative spondylolisthesis between february 1958 and august 1988 . their average age at surgery was 51 years ( range , 34-74 years ) , and their average follow-up period was 12 years 7 months ( range , 6 months to 30 years ) . clinical evaluation was done by the score rating system of the japanese orthopaedic association ( joa score ) . patients with joa scores of 25 points or more were rated as " satisfactory . " survivorship was analyzed by the method of kaplan and meier to determine the cumulative percentage of patients with satisfactory results . the following results were obtained : seventy-six percent of the patients had satisfactory results for 10 years after the anterior interbody fusion , 60 % for 20 years , and 52 % for 30 years . irrespective of their age at surgery , the patients generally maintained satisfactory results up to 65 years of age . 
clinical study on stability of combined distraction and compression rod instrumentation with posterolateral fusion for unstable degenerative spondylolisthesis . the authors examined the stability of combined distraction and compression rod instrumentation with posterolateral fusion in 40 consecutive patients with unstable degenerative spondylolisthesis . all operations were performed by floating fusion of l3-4 or l4-5 after decompression procedures . mobility at the fused level was checked every 4 weeks after operation by the disc space angle on the functional radiographic films without brace . the average period of postoperative follow-up was 26 months . in 30 patients , no mobility was found at any time . in six patients , any mobility disappeared within 24 weeks , and in three patients , within 1 year . pseudoarthrosis was found in one patient . the solid fusion rate was 97.5 % . the values of percent slippage and slip angle were slightly improved . lumbar lordosis was in the normal range at follow-up . 
eosinophilic granuloma of bladder . eosinophilic granuloma of the bladder , a rare and certainly poorly known disease , simulates bladder neoplasms . clinical aspects , histology , and therapy in a young boy are described . 
congenital monomelic hypertrophy with progressive myopathy . we describe a patient with congenital monomelic hypertrophy who later developed progressive footdrop due to a degenerative myopathy . the clinical , electrophysiologic , and pathologic features of the case are described and compared with those of a previously reported case . 
the relationship of complement-mediated microvasculopathy to the histologic features and clinical duration of disease in dermatomyositis accumulating evidence indicates that a complement-mediated microvasculopathy may play a pathogenic role in dermatomyositis . in a previous study , we demonstrated neoantigens of the c5b-9 complement membrane attack complex in the muscle microvasculature of childhood and adult cases of dermatomyositis . to further characterize the relationship between the vascular complement deposits and histologic changes , quantitative histopathologic analyses were performed on 39 dermatomyositis biopsy specimens ( 26 adult , 13 children ) . there was a significant correlation between the percentage of fascicles with fibers having focal myofibrillar loss , a change seen early in the evolution of ischemic muscle fiber damage , and the percentage of fascicles having capillary deposits of membrane attack complex . conversely , in biopsy specimens with a higher percentage of fascicles with perifascicular atrophy , membrane attack complex deposits were significantly less common . a fascicle-by-fascicle analysis supported these observations . patients whose biopsy specimens were negative for microvascular membrane attack complex had clinical weakness for a significantly longer time than those patients with vascular complement deposits . these data support the hypothesis that the complement-mediated vasculopathy is a primary immunopathogenic event in the evolution of muscle lesions in dermatomyositis . 
focal myositis . a new cause for the pediatric neck mass . focal myositis is an inflammatory pseudotumor of skeletal muscle that may involve the head and neck . it can closely mimic either a neoplastic or infectious process . we present the case of a 7-year-old boy with a 2-week history of a painful , unilateral neck swelling , fever , and torticollis . he failed to respond to antibiotic therapy and required an open neck exploration . an incisional biopsy of the indurated , inflammatory tissue adherent to his sternocleidomastoid muscle showed focal myositis . focal myositis is an unusual , but important possibility in the differential diagnosis of any neck mass and especially one in a child . although its cause is unknown , it is a self-limited disease and neither excisional biopsy nor radical resection is justified . 
surgical treatment of internal derangements of the temporomandibular joint . a long-term study . a long-term surgical follow-up study of 176 patients ( 211 joints ) with documented internal derangements of the temporomandibular joint was carried out . arthrograms and tomograms were used in all cases . forty of the patients ( 49 joints ) were nonsurgical control patients . diagnostic staging of the cases was accomplished as previously published . a clinical/radiologic assessment index was derived , which included seven measured parameters . surgical patients , grouped by diagnostic stages and selected operations , were compared with each other and with control patients over the follow-up period ( average , 8.1 years ; range , 5 to 14 years ) . the surgical procedures included meniscectomy , reconstructive arthroplasty , and arthroplasty with temporary silastic ( dow corning wright , arlington , tenn ) implant . the overall success rate for surgical cases with all stages and procedures was 93.8 % . in contrast , the control group demonstrated significant clinical and radiographic progression . the surgical results were stage dependent for the same operative procedure . significantly better success rates were obtained in early-stage cases ( 96.9 % ) than in late-stage cases ( 89.4 % ) . with respect to comparison of operative procedures , it was found that reconstructive arthroplasty provided results superior to those of meniscectomy . there was no significant difference between results obtained by meniscectomy and those by arthroplasty with a temporary silastic implant . long-term stability was excellent in most cases . follow-up radiographic changes for the surgical group were less than expected . on the other hand , radiographic analysis of the control group demonstrated progressive degenerative changes in 73.5 % of cases . complications over the entire study were rare . it was concluded that surgery can provide successful long-term results in the treatment of internal derangements . 
computed tomographic assessment of old calcaneal fractures . prolonged pain and disability are common complications of calcaneal fractures . a prospective study was conducted on the value of computed tomography ( ct ) in 63 patients with 73 calcaneal fractures sustained more than 6 months before . the fractures were classified from the initial plain radiographs , and the patients ' current clinical condition assessed in terms of a " disability score " . the mean disability scores ( mds ) associated with the different types of fracture were correlated with the ct findings . the highest mds was found in the intra-articular fracture group which comprised 71 % of the series . in this group the mds was increased in the presence of post-traumatic osteoarthrosis of the subtalar joint ( 61 % of cases ) , involvement of the calcaneocuboid joint ( 39 % of cases ) and subluxation/dislocation of the peroneal tendons ( 47 % of cases ) . structural abnormalities of the peroneal tendons were associated with a higher mds including chronic tenosynovitis ( eight cases ) , chronic partial tendon rupture ( eight cases ) , complete peroneus brevis tendon rupture ( two cases ) and scarring indicating stenosing tenosynovitis ( 14 cases ) . a similar spectrum of appearances affecting the medial tendons of the hindfoot was identified in eight cases . direct ct measurements of the degree of comminution did not correlate well with the patients ' mds . in the patient with persistent symptoms , ct is of value in the later assessment of long-term complications by revealing abnormalities of the subtalar joints and adjacent tendons . 
magnetic resonance imaging of primary skeletal muscle diseases : patterns of distribution and severity of involvement . magnetic resonance imaging of the lower extremities was performed with a low field system in 51 patients representing three different categories of biopsy-proven primary skeletal muscle disease ; muscular dystrophies , congenital myopathies and polymyositis . the intermuscular distribution of abnormal signal intensity and the grade of involvement of individual muscles were assessed . large differences in the degree of pathological signal intensity between individual muscles were found in all categories . in the muscular dystrophy and polymyositis patients , the overall involvement was significantly more severe than in patients with congenital myopathy . definite patterns of selective involvement were seen . statistical evidence of selective muscle sparing was found ; the gracilis muscle was significantly less affected than the other muscles in all three disease groups . other muscles with significant sparing include the rectus femoris and sartorius muscles of the thigh and the tibialis posterior muscle of the leg . common anatomical and functional characteristics of muscles may be related to the distribution of muscular disease . 
identification of osteoclast precursors in multilineage hemopoietic colonies . the osteoclast is known to be derived from the hemopoietic stem cell , but its lineage and the mechanisms by which its differentiation is regulated are largely unknown . there is evidence that osteoclastic differentiation is induced through a contact-dependent interaction between bone marrow stromal cells and hemopoietic precursors . to analyze osteoclastic lineage , colonies were generated in semi-solid medium from mouse spleen cells in the presence of erythropoietin with either wehi 3b-conditioned medium or interleukin 3 ( il3 ) . after 7 days , individual colonies were picked . half of each colony was phenotyped by the morphology of cells in cytospin preparations ; the second half of each was incubated for 7 days with a bone marrow-derived cell line ( ts8 ) that induces osteoclastic differentiation from hemopoietic cells , on bone slices in the presence of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 . after incubation , bone resorption was assessed by scanning electron microscopy . no resorption was induced in cells derived from single-lineage colonies , but resorptive cells differentiated in 17 % of granulocyte-macrophage ( gm ) colonies and 38 % of multilineage colonies . since only a minority of gm colonies contained osteoclastic precursors , this suggests that the gm colonies that contained osteoclasts were not typical gm colonies but may have been a form of multilineage colony analagous to other multilineage colonies that contain granulocytes , macrophages , and a third cell type . no resorptive cells were formed when il3-derived colonies were incubated on bone slices without ts8 cells . the results suggest that osteoclasts are derived from a multilineage precursor , upon which il3 acts to generate cells capable of osteoclastic differentiation , which form resorptive cells upon incubation with bone marrow stromal cells in the presence of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 . 
high concentrations of 17 beta-estradiol stimulate trabecular bone formation in adult female rats . although the effects of low concentrations of 17 beta-estradiol ( e2 ) on bone formation and resorption are well described , little is known of the effects of e2 on bone at concentrations that circulate during pregnancy . we , therefore , investigated the effects of administration of high dose e2 to 3-month-old female wistar rats on biochemical and histomorphometric indices of bone formation and resorption . animals receiving exogenous e2 ( 4 mg/kg . day for 17 days ; n = 9 ) showed a mean serum e2 concentration of 17.5 + / - 2.9 nm , compared with 0.6 + / - 0.2 nm in those receiving vehicle alone ( n = 10 ) . the bone formation rate , measured at the proximal tibial metaphysis after the administration of double fluorochrome labels , was greatly increased in the e2 group ( 13.6 + / - 2.0 x 10 ( -2 ) microns3/microns2 . day ) compared to controls ( 3.9 + / - 0.9 ) , as was serum alkaline phosphatase ( e2 , 133.6 + / - 10.1 iu ; controls , 87.5 + / - 5.5 ) . this increase in the rate of bone formation was associated with a significant increase in trabecular bone volume . e2 treatment did not affect urinary hydroxyproline excretion or histomorphometric indices of bone resorption . these findings suggest that high concentrations of e2 strongly stimulate the formation of trabecular bone . this may represent an important mechanism by which calcium stores are accumulated during pregnancy in rats , in anticipation of the mineral requirements of lactation . 
elevated expression of the genes for transforming growth factor-beta 1 and type vi collagen in diffuse fasciitis associated with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . full-thickness skin biopsies obtained from four patients with rapidly progressive diffuse fasciitis associated with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome ( ems ) were examined for the expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1 ( tgf-beta 1 ) , type vi collagen , and fibronectin genes employing immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridizations . the immunohistochemical studies demonstrated increased deposition of tgf-beta , type vi collagen , and fibronectin epitopes in the extracellular matrix of the fascia in comparison to the adjacent dermis in the same specimens . increased levels of type vi collagen mrna , as evidenced by positive in situ hybridization signals with an alpha 2 ( vi ) collagen cdna , were also found in the fascia in comparison with the dermis . in situ hybridizations of affected fascia with a human sequence-specific tgf-beta 1 cdna demonstrated numerous fibroblasts displaying positive hybridization signals indicative of high levels of transcripts for this cytokine . in contrast , no hybridization signal for tgf-beta 1 was detected in fibroblasts in the adjacent dermis . these findings suggest that tgf-beta 1 may play an important role in the development of the connective tissue alterations present in ems-associated diffuse fasciitis . 
diagnostic utility of lower extremity radiographs of young children with gait disturbance . the diagnostic utility of lower extremity radiographs was evaluated using 84 outpatients 1 to 5 years of age with gait disturbance whose lower extremities appeared physically normal . chief complaints included limp ( 65 children [ 77 % ] ) , refusal to walk or stand ( 37 children [ 44 % ] ) , and frequent falling ( 6 children [ 7 % ] ) . a total of 43 children ( 51 % ) had more than one complaint . the mean age of patients was 26 months and the median duration of symptoms was 1 day . trauma was reported in 43 ( 51 % ) cases and fever in 14 ( 17 % ) . results of radiographical studies appeared normal in 81 children ( 96 % ) , demonstrated soft tissue swelling in 2 children , and revealed a bony island in 1 child . in 1 patient admitted to the hospital for failure to thrive and irritability , and whose radiographic results appeared normal , findings consistent with osteomyelitis later developed . of the remaining children , 68 ( 81 % ) were available for follow-up observation 4 to 28 months after the initial visit and all reported spontaneous resolution of the initial complaint . it was concluded that in a well-appearing child with an otherwise normal physical examination results , an acute gait disturbance is likely to be a self-limiting condition and radiographs are unlikely to contribute to the diagnosis . 
psychological characteristics of children with shwachman syndrome . twelve children and young adults with shwachman syndrome were compared with their unaffected siblings and with controls suffering from cystic fibrosis in terms of intellectual ability , motor skills , and behaviour . there were highly significant differences in intelligence quotient between those with shwachman syndrome and the other two groups . four of the index subjects but none of the control subjects were below the normal range . the differences between groups on other tests of cognitive and motor skills were not significant , though those with shwachman syndrome tended to have the lowest scores . there was no evidence that those with shwachman syndrome had more behavioural difficulties than the control subjects . we suggest that the intellectual difficulties of patients with shwachman syndrome may be of neurological rather than social origin and that they may originate before birth . 
early antibiotic treatment of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections : clinical and serological study . objective -- to find out whether a 10-14 days ' course of antibiotics early in the course of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infections could reduce the severity and duration of the disease and whether the antibody response in patients with reactive arthritis associated with yersinia infection differed between those treated and those not treated with the antibiotics . design -- prospective multicentre trial in which patients were randomised to treatment or no treatment with antibiotics . patients were seen at three and six weeks and three , six , nine , 12 , and 18 months after their first visit . setting -- departments of infectious diseases in three hospitals in linkoping , malmo , and stockholm , sweden . patients -- 40 consecutive patients who had had symptoms of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection for less than four weeks . interventions -- 20 patients were allocated to treatment with antibiotics and 20 patients did not receive antibiotics . all patients received non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs , and four also received intra-articular steroid injections after at least six weeks ' observation . main outcome measures -- arthritic symptoms assessed clinically and by using ritchies ' index ; blood measurements reflecting inflammatory activity ; serum igg , igm , and iga antibody titres ; hla tissue type . results -- no difference was observed concerning duration of arthritis , grade of inflammation , and number of joints affected between patients treated and those not treated with antibiotics . furthermore , there was no significant difference between the two groups in erythrocyte sedimentation rate and haptoglobin , igg , and iga concentrations . all values had returned to normal within three months . no patient developed chronic arthritis , but sustained slight arthralgia occurred in three patients . the hla-b27 antigen was found in 23 ( 58 % ) of the patients , and its presence did not affect clinical outcome . the igg , igm , and iga antibody responses were similar in patients treated with antibiotics and those not treated . conclusion -- short term antibiotic treatment has no beneficial effect on the clinical outcome of reactive arthritis associated with enteric infection . 
effect of thiazide on rates of bone mineral loss : a longitudinal study [ published erratum appears in bmj 1991 jan 26 ; 302 ( 6770 ) :18 ] objective -- to determine the effect of thiazide diuretic drugs on rates of bone mineral loss . design -- longitudinal , observational study with a mean follow up of five years . setting -- hawaii osteoporosis center , honolulu . subjects -- 1017 japanese-american men born between 1900 and 1920 , of whom 378 were treated for hypertension ( study group ) and 639 did not have hypertension ( control group ) . intervention -- thiazide diuretics were taken by 325 men for a mean of 11.9 years ; 53 men took antihypertensive drugs other than thiazides . main outcome measure -- rate of bone loss estimated from serial photon absorptiometric scanning at three skeletal sites ( calcaneus , distal radius , and proximal radius ) . results -- rates of bone loss at all three sites were significantly reduced among thiazide users when compared with controls . the reductions in loss rate ranged from 28.8 % ( p = 0.02 ) ( distal radius ) to 49.2 % ( p = 0.0005 ) ( calcaneus ) relative to the controls . at all three sites the men taking other antihypertensive drugs had faster loss rates ( 22.6-43 .1 % ) than those of the controls but the difference was significant only for the distal radius . conclusion -- thiazide diuretics slow the rate of bone loss in elderly men . 
cutaneous manifestations of the l-tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome : a spectrum of sclerodermatous skin disease . the natural history of the clinical and pathologic features of skin disease was reviewed prospectively in 30 patients with the l-tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . overall , cutaneous manifestations developed in 26 patients ( 87 % ) . early lesions were nonspecific and characterized predominantly by an erythematous macular eruption on the trunk and extremities . the most characteristic abnormality noted was the spectrum of sclerodermatous disease in 15 patients ( 50 % ) often after a subacute stage of peripheral or truncal edema . clinical and/or biopsy evidence of eosinophilic fasciitis was seen in nine patients ( 30 % ) . findings consistent with diffuse , limited , or localized scleroderma were subsequently observed in nine patients ( 33 % ) . small mucinous papules , similar to those seen in scleromyxedema , were found in five patients ( 17 % ) . alopecia , frequently a late sequela , developed in 11 ( 37 % ) . common histologic features included papillary dermal fibrosis , dermal and fascial infiltrates consisting of mononuclear cells and eosinophils , deposition of glycosaminoglycans in the dermis , and , in some patients , numerous mast cells . 
central corpectomy for cervical spondylotic myelopathy : a consecutive series with long-term follow-up evaluation . since 1984 , a consecutive series of patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy has been treated by central corpectomy and strut grafting . this report focuses on 40 cases operated on between 1984 and 1987 and followed from 2 to 5 years . the perioperative complication rate was 47.5 % , with a 7.5 % incidence of persistent sequelae : severe c-5 radiculopathy in one patient , swallowing dysfunction in one , and hypoglossal nerve palsy in one . no single factor ( age , duration of symptoms , or severity of myelopathy ) was absolutely predictive of outcome ; however , syndromes of short duration had the best likelihood of cure . similar outcomes were associated , individually , with long duration of symptoms , age over 70 years , and severe myelopathy . after factoring a 5 % regression of improvement , the long-term cure rate was 57.5 % and the failure rate was 15 % . myelopathy worsening was not documented . 
the interspinous method of posterior atlantoaxial arthrodesis . thirty-six patients underwent c1-2 posterior wiring and fusion procedures over a 5-year period for unstable c-2 fractures ( eight cases ) , unstable atlas-axis combination fractures ( six cases ) , rheumatoid c1-2 instability ( 14 cases ) , os odontoideum ( four cases ) , traumatic c1-2 ligamentous instability ( three cases ) , or instability secondary to a c-2 tumor ( one case ) . in each case , the atlantoaxial arthrodesis utilized sublaminar wire at c-1 and incorporated an iliac-crest strut-graft positioned between the posterior arches of c-1 and c-2 , held in place by securing wire around the base of the spinous process of the axis . follow-up examination was performed in all patients after a mean postoperative duration of 33.7 months . the technical aspects and clinical merits of this fusion procedure , which led to a 97 % union rate ( one nonunion ) and minimal morbidity and mortality rates , are presented . 
orbital rim and malar advancement for unilateral coronal synostosis in the older pediatric age group . the authors describe a technique for lateral orbital rim and malar advancement in patients in the older pediatric age group . the technique makes use of a strip craniotomy containing the supraorbital margin , greater sphenoid wing , and temporal bone , with en bloc inclusion of the lateral orbital rim , zygoma , and malar prominence . the method allows a contoured yet stable construction secured in a tongue-in-groove fashion with plate-and-screw fixation . it creates a symmetrical reconstruction of both frontal and lateral orbital aspects in the untreated or inadequately treated older plagiocephalic child with orbital dystopia . the accompanying malar recession is likewise corrected . 
indium-111-chloride and three-phase bone scintigraphy : a comparison for imaging experimental osteomyelitis . to investigate the utility of indium-111-chloride ( 111in-cl ) imaging in detecting osteomyelitis complicating surgical or fracture sites , the proximal tibia of 11 dogs were experimentally infected with staphylococcus aureus after creation of a cortical defect . the contralateral limb served as a sham-operated control . animals were serially imaged by radiography , three-phase technetium-99m-methylene diphosphonate ( 99mtc-mdp ) scintigraphy , and 111in-cl scintigraphy . there was a significant difference between infected ( 1.93 ) and noninfected ( 1.32 ) limb 's tibia/femur count density ratios on 24-hr ( p = 0.0001 ) and 72-hr ( p = 0.0001 ) 111in-cl images . a smaller difference was found for 99mtc-mdp bone-phase tibia/femur ratios ( p = 0.0199 ) . using receiver operator characteristic analysis of tibia/femur ratios , a sensitivity of 61 % , specificity of 88 % , and positive ( 75 % ) and negative ( 79 % ) predictive values were determined for the 24-hr 111in-cl images . indium-111-chloride was superior to 99mtc-mdp in differentiating infected and noninfected operative sites . 
methotrexate-nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug interaction in children with arthritis . in order to assess the interaction between methotrexate ( mtx ) and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs ( nsaid ) , we studied the pharmacokinetics of oral mtx alone and in the presence of the usually prescribed nsaid in 7 children with chronic arthritis . the nsaid studied included tolmetin , indomethacin , naproxen , and aspirin . six patients were treated with multiple nsaid . the mean mtx elimination half-life was prolonged when nsaid were coadministered ( 1.7 + / - 0.5 vs 1.2 + / - 0.1 h ; p = 0.03 ) . however , neither the apparent mtx clearance ( ci ) ( 10.6 + / - 5.5 vs 13.1 + / - 3.5 l/h ; p = 0.19 ) , the area under the serum mtx concentration-time curve ( auc ) ( 2.1 + / - 1.0 vs 1.5 + / - 0.6 mumol/l/h ; p = 0.08 ) or the apparent volume of distribution ( vd ) ( 23.0 + / - 6.2 vs 21.9 + / - 6.4 l ; p = 0.53 ) was significantly altered by the administration of nsaid . although the differences between the mean cl and auc were not statistically significant , a wide variation in the impact of nsaid on mtx cl was observed . in 6 of 7 patients , the auc increased during nsaid administration from 19 to 140 % . this degree of increase may be clinically significant in some individuals . it is consequently recommended to closely monitor patients who are receiving mtx and nsaid for mtx toxicity until these results can be verified in a larger population . 
some osseous and soft tissue causes of human intervertebral canal ( foramen ) stenosis . much attention has been paid to the causes of vertebral canal stenosis in humans but relatively little has been documented with regard to intervertebral canal ( intervertebral " foramen , " lateral spinal canal , nerve root canal ) stenosis . as the dural sleeve ends at the outer opening of the intervertebral canal , a false " normal " myelogram is possible when a space occupying lesion occurs beyond the subarachnoid space . also , if stenosis affects only vascular structures , compression of these structures can not be noted during myelography , so venous stasis may be overlooked . our cadaveric study investigates some causes of intervertebral canal stenosis due to encroachment by bony and soft tissue structures , and low magnification photomicrographs are used to illustrate some causes of stenosis . 
hla class ii and t cell receptor gene polymorphisms in psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis . hla-drb , dqa and dqb genes as well as the t cell receptor ( tcr ) alpha , beta , and gamma genes were studied by southern blot analysis of genomic dna from patients with psoriatic arthritis ( psa ) and psoriasis alone ( ps ) . a subtype of dr7 , dr7a , was found in 38.8 % of patients with psa , 41.5 % of patients with ps , and in 8 % of healthy individuals ( n ) ( psa vs n : pc = 0.0002 , rr = 7.1 ; ps vs n : pc = 0.0002 , rr = 7.9 ) . no association with tcr genes was found . our findings suggest either that the dr7a allele may be in linkage disequilibrium with hla-cw6 or that it may be an important susceptibility factor for psa and ps . 
macroscopic and microscopic gut lesions in seronegative spondyloarthropathies . a retrospective study by ileocolonoscopy and multiple biopsies was performed on 96 patients with seronegative spondylarthropathy , 17 patients with osteoarthritis ( oa ) and 19 patients with chronic abdominal discomfort . under these conditions , inflammatory gut lesions were detected in 66.7 % of the patients with spondyloarthropathy , 12.5 % with oa and 15.8 % with chronic abdominal discomfort . in 10 patients treated by sulfasalazine ( salazopyrine ) , pathologic lesions disappeared simultaneously with an improvement of the rheumatic conditions . comparison between patients treated and untreated with nonsteroidal inflammatory drugs ( nsaid ) demonstrated that nsaid did not enter into the etiopathology of the intestinal lesions . our study therefore confirms the high incidence of inflammatory gut lesions among patients with spondylarthropathy which seems not to be related to nsaid therapy . 
differential diagnosis between osteitis condensans ilii and sacroiliitis [ published erratum appears in j rheumatol 1991 may ; 18 ( 5 ) :790 ] sacroiliitis of seronegative spondyloarthropathy may sometimes show on pelvis plain films findings indistinguishable from those of osteitis condensans ilii . computed tomography ( ct ) can differentiate earlier than plain radiography between the 2 conditions ; furthermore , it should also be possible to make this differentiation clinically . the aim of our study was to verify whether the criteria recently proposed by the european spondylarthropathy study group ( eesg ) for the classification of spondyloarthropathy are useful . ct scans through the synovial part of the sacroiliac joints of 7 consecutive patients meeting the essg criteria and showing typical findings of osteitis condensans ilii on plain films were mixed with those of 15 consecutive patients with osteitis condensans ilii not meeting the essg criteria . scans were examined for joint space and surface abnormalities blindly and independently by 2 observers . six patients in the spondyloarthropathy group and one in the osteiitis condensans ilii group showed clear erosions and/or joint space narrowing of less than 2 mm in at least one joint . the difference was statistically significant ( p less than 0.001 ) . our results suggest that by using criteria valid for the whole group of seronegative spondyloarthropathies , it is possible to differentiate clinically between seronegative spondyloarthropathies with sacroiliitis mimicking osteitis condensans ilii and " true " osteitis condensans ilii . 
relapsing polychondritis in pregnancy . a 25-year-old patient presented at 14 weeks of her 3rd pregnancy with chondritis affecting the cartilaginous portion of her right ear . the clinical syndrome of recurrent chondritis , scleritis , iritis and arthritis supported a diagnosis of relapsing polychondritis . fetal and maternal outcomes were favorable despite steroid dependent active disease during the period of fetal organogenesis . chondritis was limited to the 3rd pregnancy , ocular inflammation occurring in the 2nd and 3rd pregnancies . a 4th pregnancy was uneventful . this may represent the first case of relapsing polychondritis in pregnancy . 
l-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . we describe the spectrum of clinical and histologic abnormalities of 11 women with l-tryptophan induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the illness is characterized by musculoskeletal symptoms including myalgias , arthralgias and paresthesias . the physical findings consist of muscle tenderness , neuropathies , rash , peripheral and periorbital edema . electroneurography performed in 10 patients demonstrated a neuropathy in 5 and myopathic changes in 3 . skin and muscle biopsies showed fascial edema , inflammation and perivascular infiltrates in the skin , whereas perineural infiltrates and venulitis were identified in muscle . seven patients were treated with prednisone ; eosinophilia disappeared promptly although myalgias and neuropathy persisted . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with l-tryptophan use . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the use of oral preparations of the amino acid l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989 . we describe the clinical and laboratory manifestations , pathological findings and early clinical course of 20 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . prominent clinical findings included severe myalgias limiting function , fatigue , rashes , edema and weight gain , weight loss , muscle weakness and shortness of breath . laboratory findings included eosinophilia ( often marked ) , normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and elevated aldolase with normal or low creatine kinase values . on biopsy fascial inflammation was always seen consisting of lymphocytes , histiocytes and eosinophils in a perivascular distribution . invasion of the vascular wall by lymphocytes was seen in 20 % . capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening was found in most cases on electron microscopy and endothelial cell necrosis or mural invasion by lymphocytes was seen in 25 % of cases . two patients improved with no therapy . ten patients responded to therapy with prednisone alone . three patients have had progressive disease and one of these died . the relationship of this syndrome to previously described disease entities associated with eosinophilia is discussed . 
microangiopathy in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with the ingestion of l-tryptophan was recognized in late 1989 . we describe our pathologic study of skin , fascial , and muscle biopsies from 21 patients evaluated by light microscopy , histochemistry , and electron microscopy . a perivascular , lymphocytic infiltrate with eosinophils was present in the dermis , fascia , and skeletal muscle . lymphocytic infiltration of arteries and arterioles was seen . ultrastructurally , capillary and arteriolar endothelial cell thickening and necrosis was present . this microangiopathy suggests that ischemia may be a contributing factor to the findings in this syndrome . 
an eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with an l-tryptophan containing product . a syndrome of eosinophilia and myalgias associated with the usage of l-tryptophan containing products has been recently described by the centers for disease control . we report a case of this new clinical entity , highlighted by severe myositis , and compare this illness with similar reported syndromes . 
eosinophilic myositis an expression of l-tryptophan toxicity ? eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome possibly due to l-tryptophan is a new clinical entity that has been recently reported . we describe the clinical presentation of eosinophilia , eosinophilic pustular folliculitis , myalgia , and eosinophilic myositis , that led to respiratory failure in a young man taking an l-tryptophan containing compound . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome in association with l-tryptophan ingestion . the association between the recently described eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and l-tryptophan is now well established . we describe a patient with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome who developed incapacitating myalgias and peripheral eosinophilia responsive only to high dose corticosteroids . when massive upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage developed while receiving corticosteroid therapy , surgery was complicated by striking abdominal wall rigidness . a discussion of this case and of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is presented . 
l-tryptophan associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . environmental chemicals are increasingly incriminated in the pathogenesis of several disease states . the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome is a recently described entity attributed to the ingestion of the normal dietary amino acid l-tryptophan . we describe a patient who fulfills criteria for the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and who was ingesting supplemental l-tryptophan . exhaustive investigations failed to reveal other causes for her eosinophilia or her myalgic/neuropathic complaints , and she improved dramatically when she discontinued the l-tryptophan supplements . the mechanisms whereby this chemical may induce this syndrome are discussed . 
a useful technique for measurement of back strength in osteoporotic and elderly patients . improvement of back extensor strength ( bes ) can be used as a therapeutic method for patients with chronic back pain and osteoporosis . the method of evaluation must be reliable and accurate without compromising the condition of the patient . we report the development of a back isometric dynamometer ( bid-2000 ) designed specifically by two of us to address these concerns in elderly patients with osteopenia or osteoporosis . as the demographics of the general population change , increasing numbers of patients will need the type of monitoring that the bid-2000 provides . aging has been shown to cause a reduction in the number of functional muscle motor units . to examine this effect on bes , we tested 50 normal , healthy women who were 30 to 79 years old . proper testing of bes in patients with fragile vertebrae should include isometric measurement in the prone position , maneuverability of the device to allow comfortable positioning of the patient , and simplicity of technique to minimize repetitious performance of maximal contraction . the bid-2000 incorporates each of these features and also provides meaningful results inexpensively . the device offers a safe , reliable ( coefficient of variation = 2.33 % ) , and valid ( p = 0.001 ) method of evaluation . the results of our study demonstrated moderate , steady reduction of bes with increasing age and with each successive decade . 
giant intradiploic epidermoid tumor of the occipital bone : case report . the authors describe a case of a giant intradiploic epidermoid cyst of the occipital bone with an intracranial extension in the posterior fossa and no signs of neurological involvement . the lesion started as a painless lump under the scalp . roentgenographic and computed tomographic findings led to a correct diagnosis , and the complete removal of the cyst was accomplished , despite its large size . the total removal of these cysts is associated with a good prognosis . 
occult , bilateral anterior sacral and intrasacral meningeal and perineurial cysts : case report and review of the literature . none of the more than 180 cases of anterior sacral meningocele reported in the past 150 years has been bilateral , and only two have been associated with occult intrasacral meningocele . we report a unique case of bilateral anterior sacral cysts , communicating with the subarachnoid space , associated with occult intrasacral meningeal and perineurial ( tarlov 's ) cysts , in an asymptomatic woman . the pertinent clinical and diagnostic imaging literature is reviewed . 
methods of treating plantar ulcers . the purpose of this article is to describe the indications , precautions , and fabrication techniques for orthotic devices the authors use to facilitate the healing of plantar ulcers . the methods of fabricating and applying three types of orthotic devices developed by the staff at the gillis w long hansen 's disease center -- walking casts , walking splints , and cutout sandals -- are described . patient examples are given for each of the methods . these techniques , in conjunction with patient education and the use of special footwear , provide clinicians with procedures they can use to aid in the healing of plantar ulcers secondary to leprosy , diabetes , or other neuropathic conditions . 
restoration of the anterior neck surface in the burned patient by free groin flap . in treating extensive burn contractures of the anterior neck , we obtained good results using free flaps . ninety-nine patients with neck contractures were treated with free flaps . the ages of the patients range from 2 to 64 years . we used 84 free groin flaps , 10 free latissimus dorsi musculocutaneous flaps , 2 free deltopectoral flaps , 2 free scapular flaps , and 1 free anterolateral thigh flap . in all patients , contractures were sufficiently released and no recurrences followed after a mean follow-up of 8.7 years . after defatting procedures , natural profiles and good appearances were restored , especially in patients in whom groin flaps were used . 
trigger finger secondary to anomalous lumbrical insertion : a case report and review of the literature . trigger finger is a relatively common clinical entity , most frequently caused by stenosing tenosynovitis . several other conditions not related to tenosynovitis also have been described as a cause of triggering , and these have been reviewed . we present a rare anomaly of the fourth lumbrical muscle insertion as a cause of triggering of the right little finger . this was completely relieved following excision of the anomalous muscle . this rare anatomic variant should be added to the list of potential causes of trigger finger . 
pulmonary involvement in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . we describe the cases of three women with pulmonary involvement in the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . the illness was characterized by elevated peripheral blood eosinophil counts , myalgias , fatigue , and dyspnea . two of three patients had bilateral infiltrates on chest roentgenograms . all three had markedly decreased carbon monoxide diffusing capacities and pulmonary hypertension . high-dose prednisone therapy provided only partial resolution of the pulmonary symptoms . open lung biopsy specimens showed chronic interstitial and perivascular infiltrates in two of the patients and moderate fibrointimal hyperplasia of pulmonary vasculature in the third . high-dose prednisone therapy prior to the biopsies may have modified the original histologic features . 
reviewing the unicystic ameloblastoma : report of two cases . classification of ameloblastoma into solid , multicystic , unicystic , and peripheral types based on clinical appearance and effects has gained recent recognition . the unicystic ameloblastoma is a less encountered variant of the ameloblastoma . it appears more frequently in the second or third decade with no sexual or racial predilection . it is almost exclusively encountered asymptomatically in the posterior mandible . the following report of two cases discusses the pathophysiology , demographics , histology , and prognosis of the unicystic ameloblastoma . 
infectious mononucleosis , epstein-barr virus , and chronic fatigue syndrome : a prospective case series epstein-barr viral infection , specifically infectious mononucleosis , typically has a more protracted course than other acute viral illnesses . some recent observers have additionally suggested the possibility that epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) is the etiologic infectious agent in chronic fatigue syndrome , based on the finding of higher proportions of elevated antibodies to the ebv early antigen in some patients complaining of chronic fatigue . straus et al reported on 23 patients with chronic fatigue , 83 % of whom exhibited persistently elevated antibodies in modest titer to the early antigen . ten of these patients had never fully recovered from an episode of acute infectious mononucleosis . other studies had noted similar associations between persistently elevated antibodies to ebv-specific antigens and chronic symptoms in patients who presented with chronic symptoms after mononucleosis . three important antigen complexes , demonstrable by immunofluorescence procedures , are expressed in ebv-infected cells . the early antigen is thought to function perhaps in early replication of viral dna . a late antigenic complex , the viral capsid antigen , may represent , in addition to structural capsid proteins , components of the viral enzymatic machinery for late phases of replication or transformation . the epstein-barr nuclear antigen is felt to function in viral transformation of host cells . 
evaluation of ultrasound in the diagnosis of pathologic processes in the parotid gland . the values of ultrasound in differentiation of pathologic processes in the parotid gland were studied in 61 patients . the ultrasound findings were compared with operative and histologic findings . in 28 patients with chronic inflammatory processes , the ultrasound findings were in complete correlation with the histologic findings , showing enlarged parotid glands , homogenous glandular epithelium , and small , multiple cysts . in 31 patients with a tumor of the parotid gland , ultrasound scanning detected the presence of the tumor . in determining the location of the tumor , the method is highly specific when it is localized in the superficial lobe ( 100 % ) , and it is less specific when it is localized in the deep lobe of the parotid gland . also , it is highly specific in determination of tumor size ( 96 % ) . in two cases with retention cysts , the ultrasound findings also correlated with the histologic and operative findings . the results obtained show that ultrasound is a reliable diagnostic method for detection of pathologic changes in the parotid gland . 
arthroscopic treatment of temporomandibular joint locking resulting from disc derangement : two-year results . this article reports 2-year postarthroscopic surgical treatment data for 18 subjects ( 17 female and 1 male ) who had a diagnosis of restricted mandibular movement due to an internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint ( tmj ) . these subjects had been treated by an average of 2.1 + / - 1.1 doctors for their tmj problem before seeing the surgeon for arthroscopic treatment . the subjects ' mean pain score at the final time point ( 21 to 30 months after surgery ) was decreased by 57 % in usual pain intensity . jaw function showed an average improvement of 67 % . these subjects also showed a 13-mm mean increase in their maximum active opening ability at the 2-year postsurgical time point . slight to definite clicking noises were present presurgically in 11 of 18 patients , and similar joint noises were reported in 14 of 18 patients postsurgically . the mean overall improvement was rated as 8.18 + / - 2.4 , with 10 the highest possible rating . one subject rated her improvement as 0 , two subjects rated their improvement as 6 out of 10 . no significant morbidity was reported by the subjects as a result of their surgery . 
extracranial and mandibular augmentation with hydroxyapatite-collagen in induced diabetic and nondiabetic rats [ published erratum appears in j oral maxillofac surg 1991 jun ; 49 ( 6 ) :669 ] this study evaluated three hydroxyapatite ( ha ) preparations placed subperiosteally in rats given streptozotocin ( 70 mg/kg ) to induce diabetes ( id ) ( n = 24 ) and in nondiabetic ( nd ) rats ( n = 24 ) used as controls . implants of 1 ) nonporous ha granules ( hag ) , 2 ) ha granules hand-mixed with bovine collagen ( hacm ) , and 3 ) ha granules and purified fibrillar collagen in a preprocessed block ( pfc-ha ) were randomly placed in subperiosteal pockets created on the cranium and adjacent to the left/right mandibles of each rat . six rats from each group were killed at 3 , 6 , 12 , and 24 weeks postimplantation . animals killed after 3 weeks showed sporadic bone proliferation and bone resorption , whereas those killed after 6 , 12 , and 24 weeks showed formation of new bone at the implant/bone interface . contact of the implant with bone was a requirement for osteogenesis , but bone formed only into the basilar layers of the implants . the id group showed the greatest inflammatory response as well as the greatest degree of osteogenesis at all intervals of time . the addition of collagen to ha appeared to reduce the inflammatory response . specimens implanted with hacm showed the least inflammation of the three implanted materials in both id and nd groups . 
internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint : a histochemical study . the purpose of this study was to correlate histologic findings in temporomandibular joint ( tmj ) condyles and discs with their macroscopic appearance at surgery . the 24 patients with internal derangement of the joint included 20 women and 4 men ( mean age , 37 years ; range , 18 to 61 years ) . the tissue lesions varied in degree from mild soft-tissue fraying and bone remodeling to extensive resorption and new cartilage and bone formation with high phosphatase enzyme activities , and even to loss of articular soft tissue and breakdown of cortical bone . reactions may arise in the hard tissues before they occur in the articular surface layers . 
drugs to lower uric acid levels . how to avoid misuse in gouty arthritis . several points regarding the use of drugs to lower uric acid levels deserve emphasis . first , these agents are not useful in the management of acute gout . second , all forms of the drugs should be initiated at low dose with gradual increments to achieve a serum uric acid level between 5 and 6 mg/dl . there are no data to support the widely presumed notion that dropping the uric acid level to a very low range ( 1 to 3 mg/dl ) hastens resorption of tophi or improves joint function . third , the uricosuric agents probenecid ( benemid ) and sulfinpyrazone ( anturane ) interact with a number of drugs , and both the patient and physician should be aware of this . finally , and most important , careful and frequent monitoring is needed during the first several months of therapy with these drugs . 
chronic fatigue syndrome : is it real ? epstein-barr virus is no longer considered an important cause of chronic fatigue syndrome . instead , the disease is probably related to an underlying psychiatric disorder , subtle immunologic dysfunction , or an interaction between these two factors . a carefully taken history , physical examination , and simple laboratory testing are usually sufficient to establish the diagnosis . therapy with antidepressants or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs may be effective in selected patients . thorough follow-up conducted with empathy and optimism is important in all cases . 
musculoskeletal abnormalities in a patient with juvenile hypothyroidism . abnormalities in growth and development are the most striking clinical features of juvenile acquired hypothyroidism . therefore , physicians should consider the diagnosis of hypothyroidism in any child with musculoskeletal growth dysfunction . drs kilpatrick and fincher describe a case demonstrating the severe and potentially irreversible effects of prolonged , untreated hypothyroidism . 
laboratory tests for rheumatic diseases . a carefully taken history and thorough physical examination remain the most crucial aspects of diagnosing rheumatic disorders . non-rheumatologic conditions also need to be kept in mind . laboratory tests should be looked on as mostly supportive or confirmatory , because many of the tests are relatively nonspecific and may lack sensitivity . if their limitations are recognized , however , the tests can be invaluable tools when the clinician confronts the task of differentiating an array of rheumatologic disorders . 
recurrent rhabdomyolysis in association with cocaine use . as the popularity of cocaine increases in our society , so does the frequency and variety of medical complications associated with its use . a growing number of cases have implicated cocaine use in the development of rhabdomyolysis and its complication , acute renal failure . we have reported the first case of recurrent rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure directly associated with cocaine use . although adulterants might cause muscle damage , we believe cocaine should be added to the list of drugs that are capable of producing rhabdomyolysis . 
deep venous thrombosis in intravenous cocaine abuse mimicking septic arthritis of the shoulder . we describe two patients with deep venous thrombosis of the upper extremity who initially were thought to have septic arthritis of the shoulder . these patients had a history of recent intravenous cocaine abuse . the diagnosis of deep venous thrombosis should be considered when a patient with a swollen shoulder has an appropriate history . 
spinal cord compression due to pagetic spinal stenosis with involvement of extradural soft tissues : a case report . although paget 's disease of the spine may cause neurological dysfunction by bone hypertrophy or collapse , it is very rare for the disease process to extend into the soft tissues of the spinal canal . we report a case of paget 's disease causing ossification of the ligamentum flavum and extradural fat , thus causing spinal cord compression . decompressive laminectomy was carried out , resulting in neurological improvement . in such cases surgical decompression should be followed by therapy with calcitonin . 
the painful shoulder : part ii . intrinsic disorders and impingement syndrome . intrinsic disorders that can cause shoulder pain include arthritis , gout , pseudogout and osteonecrosis . in its mildest form , impingement syndrome may cause only minimal discomfort . at its worst , impingement syndrome may lead to rotator cuff tear . bicipital tendinitis and rupture of the biceps tendon may also be associated with impingement . early rehabilitative intervention is important . physical therapy is directed toward restoring range of motion and muscle strength . 
association of treacher collins syndrome and translocation 6p21 .31 / 16p13 .11 : exclusion of the locus from these candidate regions . treacher collins syndrome ( tcs ) is an autosomal dominant defect of craniofacial development which has not been chromosomally localized . we have identified a mother and two children who have tcs and also a balanced translocation t ( 6 ; 16 ) ( p21 .31 ; p13 .11 ) , which suggested the possibility that the tcs locus might be located at one of the translocation breakpoints . these were defined by in-situ hybridization as 6p21 .31 ( by using loci in the hla complex defined by the probes p45 .1 dp beta 003/hla-dpb 2 and prs5 .10 / hla class i chain ) and 16p13 .11 ( by using probes pachf1 .3.2 / d16s8 and vk45/d16s131 ) . pairwise and multipoint linkage analysis using localized chromosome 6 probes and chromosome 16 probes in 12 unrelated tcs families with multiple affected siblings excluded the tcs locus from proximity to both translocation breakpoints . these data were confirmed when a third affected child , who did not exhibit the translocation , was born to the mother . 
predictability of difficult laryngoscopy in patients with long-term diabetes mellitus . the laryngoscopic conditions of 62 diabetic patients who underwent renal transplantation or vitrectomy were studied . anaesthesia was induced with fentanyl and a sleep dose of thiopentone . conditions for direct laryngoscopy after 0.1 mg/kg vecuronium were scored from 0 to 3 ( easy-very difficult ) . all patients gave their palm prints after operation which were scored : 0 , phalangeal areas completely visible ; 1 , phalangeal areas partly visible ; 2 , phalangeal areas hardly visible ; 3 , only fingertips printed . the incidence of difficult laryngoscopy was 31 % . the higher the scores in the palm test , the more difficult was the laryngoscopy . the correlation coefficient between these two factors was r = 0.6 ( p less than 0.001 ) . our study shows that joint rigidity possibly caused by tissue glycosylation may also involve laryngeal and cervical areas resulting in a strenuous laryngoscopy . a defective palm print is a warning sign for difficult laryngoscopy . 
eosinophilic fasciitis associated with tryptophan ingestion . a manifestation of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . recently , the ingestion of tryptophan has been associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome , which is characterized by eosinophilia , myalgias , and several less consistently reported findings . we treated 13 patients who exhibited clinical features of eosinophilic fasciitis who were taking high-dose tryptophan before the onset of clinical symptoms . twelve patients exhibited eosinophilia , with eosinophil counts ranging from 0.13 to 0.88 . the remaining patient was taking oral corticosteroids when her eosinophil count was determined . eight patients complained of myalgias . other symptoms included arthralgias , pruritus , cutaneous burning , weakness , fever , rashes , malaise , edema , muscle spasms , and alopecia . 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels were elevated in four of the eight urine specimens that were tested . our findings suggest that previously diagnosed cases of eosinophilic fasciitis may represent variants of tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome . derangements in the metabolism of tryptophan may play a role in sclerotic diseases . 
ichthyosis , exocrine pancreatic insufficiency , impaired neutrophil chemotaxis , growth retardation , and metaphyseal dysplasia ( shwachman syndrome ) . report of a case with extensive skin lesions ( clinical , histological , and ultrastructural findings ) . the shwachman syndrome comprises exocrine pancreatic insufficiency , growth retardation , and bone marrow hypoplasia resulting in neutropenia . clinical , morphological , and ultrastructural studies , as well as hair analysis , were performed in a patient with shwachman 's syndrome and severe ichthyosis . clinical findings were lamellar ichthyosiform desquamation on the extremities . the hair was scanty and short on the scalp , in the eyelashes , and in the eyebrows . the nails were hyperkeratotic . morphologic findings were slight , regular acanthosis and severe diffuse hyperkeratosis with variable parakeratosis . the granular layer was thickened . the papillary dermis showed very slight perivascular lymphocyte infiltration . the most prominent ultrastructural finding was the presence of solitary or multiple droplets of varying size in the cytoplasm of the keratinocytes . hair analysis revealed no abnormalities ; the cystine concentration in hair specimens was normal . 
corticosteroid-induced juxta-articular adiposis dolorosa . long-term treatment with high doses of corticosteroids leads to the development of truncal obesity and focal fatty deposition . these deposits characteristically are located on the face , the nuchal and truncal areas , and episternally , as well as in the mediastinum and epicardium . we studied a patient with juxta-articular adiposis dolorosa who had l-tryptophan-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and was treated with high doses of prednisone . this is the first reported case of adiposis dolorosa occurring as a complication of corticosteroid treatment . alterations of fat metabolism induced by corticosteroid excess may have played a role in the development of this unusual painful syndrome . 
fatigue in postpolio syndrome . a survey was conducted to better understand complaints of fatigue in patients previously diagnosed as having polio . eighty-six individuals with postpolio syndrome and 20 healthy controls completed a questionnaire about their fatigue , the beck depression inventory , and the cage questionnaire . the results showed that fatigue in postpolio syndrome usually occurred on a daily basis and increased in severity as the day progressed . both the study group and controls described their fatigue as tiredness and a lack of energy . however , physical weakness was reported only in the postpolio group . minimal physical exercise exacerbated fatigue in 48 % of the postpolio group , whereas it diminished fatigue in 70 % of the controls and in 15 % of the postpolio group . twenty-seven percent of the postpolio group and none of the controls reported mild to moderate depressive symptoms . however , depression , age , alcohol abuse , and employment status did not significantly affect the differences between groups in reported prevalence or description of chronic fatigue . criteria to separate psychologic from organic causes of fatigue and treatment interventions are discussed . 
psychosocial , functional , and quality of life assessment of patients with posttraumatic fracture nonunion , chronic refractory osteomyelitis , and lower extremity amputation . one hundred nine patients with long-bone fracture nonunion , chronic refractory osteomyelitis , or posttraumatic amputation were evaluated for the impact of chronic disability on quality of life , as measured by the arthritis impact measurement scale ( aims ) and the psychosocial adjustment to illness scale ( pais ) . a self-administered pais for spouses assessed psychosocial adjustment of spouses or significant others . a final questionnaire ranked the reasons for either continuing medical therapy or accepting amputation . the pais scores differed significantly between osteomyelitis patients and both nonunion and amputation patients ( p less than .05 ) . the presence or absence of pain produced significant differences in aims and pais scores of nonunion and osteomyelitis patients ( p less than .05 ) . subscale analysis of aims scores revealed significant differences among the three groups in health perception and scale of orthopedic problem : osteomyelitis patients were more severely affected than nonunion or amputation patients . the pais detected no statistically significant difference in psychosocial adjustment of spouses of patients in the three population groups . the most common reason for continuing medical and surgical management of nonunion and osteomyelitis was expectation for cure . the amputee group chose ablation to avoid further treatment . differences in psychosocial and functional ability were related to disease diagnosis , pain , status of fracture healing , and timing of amputation . 
histopathology of metastatic temporal bone tumors . temporal bone metastasis is now being reported with increasing frequency . to understand the process of temporal bone metastasis , complete histologic evaluation of the temporal bones is essential . in this study , 60 temporal bones from 33 patients were evaluated . different patterns of temporal bone involvement were noted depending on the mode of spread to the temporal bone . involvement of the temporal bone usually occurs late in the disease process and is often asymptomatic . 
familial chondrocalcinosis due to calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystal deposition in english families . familial predisposition to chondrocalcinosis ( cc ) due to calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate ( cppd ) crystal deposition is described in five english kindreds . two families were characterized by premature-onset polyarticular cc with little associated structural arthropathy . in one of these families , recurrent childhood fits were strongly associated with subsequent development of cc . affected members of the other three families resembled sporadic disease in showing predominantly late-onset , oligoarticular cc with mild arthritis and destructive change in only one case . knee synovial fluid levels of inorganic pyrophosphate ( ppi ) and nucleoside triphosphate pyrophosphate ( ntpp ) did not differ from those of 59 sporadic cases of cc due to cppd , although ppi and ntpp levels in both groups were higher than in normal knee synovial fluid ( p less than 0.0001 ) . urinary ppi levels were not different from normal controls . screening for other metabolic abnormality was negative in all cases . this is the first report of familial cc in the uk , and the first to associate this condition with childhood fits . absence of overt primary abnormality of ppi metabolism suggests that other factors relating to crystal nucleation/growth may be more relevant to predisposition in these cases . 
septic arthritis as a non-surgical complication in rheumatoid arthritis : relation to disease severity and therapy . more aggressive therapy including cytotoxic drugs is increasingly used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , and may confer increased susceptibility to infections . septic arthritis is one infectious complication known to be overrepresented in ra . we studied the impact of disease severity and medication in a group of nine ra patients with proven septic arthritis , excluding those occurring as a complication of orthopaedic surgery . two control groups were used for comparison . the septic arthritis patients were functionally more incapacitated and more often treated with cytotoxic drugs . six of the nine septic arthritis patients had received an intra-articular injection into the infected joint within 3 months prior to the onset of the septic arthritis . only one of these occurred immediately after arthrocentesis . the annual frequency of septic arthritis was approximately 0.2 % . during the 4-year period studied the frequency was 0.5 % . when related to the number of glucocorticosteroid injections , a frequency of 1 per 2000 injections was found when late septic arthritis was included . the high frequency of delayed septic arthritis after intra-articular glucocorticosteroid administration should alert physicians to this complication . 
immunogenetic heterogeneity in rheumatoid disease as illustrated by different mhc associations ( dq , dw and c4 ) in articular and extra-articular subsets . genetic variants at drb1 ( dw subtypes ) , dqb , and c4 loci were compared in rheumatoid disease subjects with or without the extra-articular feature of felty 's syndrome or major vasculitis . dr4 positive subjects with rheumatoid arthritis alone showed no preferential associations with dqb or dw variants or with c4 null alleles . felty 's subjects showed associations with the dqb encoded dqw7 allele and with the c4b null allele but no preferential associations with any dw subtype of dr4 . by contrast dr4 + ve rheumatoid-vasculitic subjects showed associations with the dw14 as well as with dqw7 and the c4a null allele . these different mhc associations in different clinical disease subsets show that rheumatoid disease is immunogenetically heterogeneous and suggest that mhc genes outside the drb1 locus may also influence susceptibility or modify expression of the rheumatoid disease process . 
ultrasound-guided hepatic cryosurgery in the treatment of metastatic colon carcinoma . preliminary results . cryosurgery , the in situ freezing of cancer , has been proposed in the past as a possible treatment for unresectable hepatic tumors . its advantage lies in the fact that it is a very focal treatment sacrificing less normal tissue than surgical resection , allowing treatment of multiple lobes . because cryosurgery does not affect large vessels , tumors in difficult locations , such as adjacent to the inferior vena cava ( ivc ) , can be treated . with the use of intraoperative ultrasound to place the cryoprobes and monitor the freezing process , 18 patients with unresectable metastatic colon carcinoma confined to the liver were treated . of the 18 patients treated , 4 ( 22 % ) are in complete remission as determined by computed tomography ( ct ) scans and carcinoembryonic antigen ( cea ) levels , with a mean follow-up of 28.8 months . four patients ( 22 % ) were not adequately treated at the time of cryosurgery . the number of lesions frozen in each patient ranged from 1 to 12 , with a mean of 6 lesions . fourteen patients had bilobar disease ; three patients had previous right lobectomies with recurrences in their remaining left lobes prior to cryosurgery , and one patient had unilobar disease . mean survival of the 14 cases with recurrence was 21.4 months , with 2 of the 14 still alive . ultrasound-guided hepatic cryosurgery appears to be an effective treatment for metastatic colon carcinoma to the liver that is unresectable ( including patients with bilobar and multiple lesions ) . these preliminary results indicate that the procedure warrants further study . 
effects of inosine on glycolysis and contracture during myocardial ischemia . the effects of inosine ( ino ) on substrate metabolism and rigor formation in ischemic myocardium were examined in isolated rabbit hearts . metabolite content was assessed in tissue extracts by chemical analysis and in the whole heart by 13c and 31p nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy . in ischemic hearts metabolizing either [ 3-13c ] pyruvate or [ 1-13c ] glucose , 1 mm ino increased both total and 13c-labeled alanine content ; lactate content was unaffected . at 3 minutes of ischemia , tissue alanine was 1.81 + / - 0.11 microm/g wet wt ( mean + / - sem ) in hearts perfused with pyruvate + ino versus 1.23 + / - 0.15 microm/g wet wt in hearts perfused with pyruvate alone ( p less than 0.05 ) . ino reduced tissue glycogen during ischemia in pyruvate-perfused hearts . tissue alanine content in ischemic hearts that were supplied glucose + ino ( 1.29 + / - 0.13 microm/g wet wt ) was greater than in ischemic hearts supplied glucose alone ( 0.65 + / - 0.14 microm/g wet wt ) . alanine was found to originate from pyruvate and was a glycolytic end product in glucose-perfused hearts . ino raised the [ 3-13c ] alanine / [ 3-13c ] lactate ratio in ischemic , intact hearts ( glucose = 0.24 + / - 0.07 versus glucose + ino = 0.60 + / - 0.09 ; pyruvate = 0.49 + / - 0.08 versus pyruvate + ino = 0.89 + / - 0.08 ) . at 7 minutes of ischemia , atp content fell to 70 + / - 3 % with glucose + ino versus 58 + / - 5 % with glucose alone . rigor ( stone heart ) was delayed from 14.7 + / - 1.3 to 23.2 + / - 1.6 minutes with ino . ino did not change atp content in ischemic hearts that were supplied pyruvate but delayed rigor ( pyruvate = 9.9 + / - 1.2 minutes ; pyruvate + ino = 15.6 + / - 1.0 minutes ) , possibly at the expense of glycogen . supplemental glucose improved the effectiveness of ino with pyruvate to preserve atp ( pyruvate + glucose = 42 + / - 6 % ; pyruvate + glucose + ino = 72 + / - 6 % ) and further delayed rigor ( pyruvate + glucose = 13.3 + / - 1.5 minutes ; pyruvate + glucose + ino = 20.3 + / - 1.8 minutes ) . glucose metabolism supported improved energetic and contractile states in ischemic hearts treated with ino . thus , cardioprotection of the ischemic heart by ino was associated with preservation of functional integrity and improved energy production due to increased glycolytic activity . activation of glycolysis in the presence of ino was accommodated by augmented alanine production without the additional accumulation of lactate . 
relationship of limited joint mobility to abnormal foot pressures and diabetic foot ulceration . objective : to investigate the role of limited joint mobility ( ljm ) in causing abnormal foot pressures and foot ulceration . research design and methods : the subjects were recruited from a general diabetes clinic where patients were screened for neuropathy , retinopathy , and elevated plantar foot pressure . sixty-four patients in five groups were matched by age and sex in the following groups : group 1 , patients with ljm and neuropathy ; group 2 , nonneuropathic diabetic patients with ljm ; group 3 , patients with neuropathy and no ljm ; group 4 , diabetic control subjects ; and group 5 , nondiabetic control subjects . joint mobility was assessed in the foot at subtalar and metatarsophalangeal joints ; plantar foot pressures were assessed by optical pedobarography and neuropathic status by a biothesiometer and electrophysiology . results : joint mobility was reduced at both sites in groups 1 and 2 compared with groups 3 , 4 , and 5 ( p less than 0.001 ) . plantar foot pressures were significantly higher in groups 1 and 2 compared with groups 3 , 4 , and 5 ( p less than 0.001 ) . no differences in plantar foot pressures were observed between groups 1 and 2 . there were strong correlations between plantar foot pressures and joint mobility in the foot ( r = -0.7 , p less than 0.001 ) . previous foot ulceration was present in 65 % of patients in group 1 , none in group 2 , and 5 % in group 3 . conclusions : 1 ) ljm may be a major factor in causing abnormally high plantar foot pressures , 2 ) abnormal plantar foot pressures alone do not lead to foot ulceration , and 3 ) ljm contributes to foot ulceration in the susceptible neuropathic foot . 
brucellar and tuberculous spondylitis . a comparative study of their clinical features . the clinical data from 19 patients with brucellar spondylitis and 15 with tuberculous spondylitis were compared . the former disease affects males whose occupations expose them to brucella . the lumbar spine is usually involved and there are other symptoms of brucellosis . tuberculous spondylitis is not usually accompanied by general symptoms . the dorsal spine is more frequently affected and may exhibit vertebral collapse and paraspinal abscesses . these differences permit a presumptive aetiological diagnosis , but the definitive diagnosis depends upon bacteriological tests . 
spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer . fifty-five patients with severe pain from spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer were referred to hope hospital , none being judged to be in a terminal condition . one patient had too extensive disease for surgery so 54 were treated by 55 spinal stabilisations ; 49 obtained complete relief of pain and two had partial relief . there were three failures . twenty-eight of the patients had clinical evidence of spinal cord or cauda equina compression and were decompressed at the time of stabilisation . of these , 20 had major recovery of neurological function . patients with pre-operative evidence of extradural tumour had ' prophylactic ' decompression at the time of stabilisation ; none of these patients later developed signs of cord or cauda equina compression . the results suggest that alleviation of pain and restoration of mobility are best achieved by segmental spinal stabilisation ; a few patients require a combined anterior and posterior stabilisation . postoperative radiotherapy should be given whenever possible , and the causative tumour should be treated by endocrine or chemotherapy , as indicated . 
dislocation after primary arthroplasty for subcapital fracture of the hip . wide range of movement is a risk factor . dislocation is the most frequent serious complication following total hip replacement for subcapital femoral fracture . we report a prospective study , using matched groups , which compared the range of hip movement following hip replacement for arthritis and for fracture . the range of movement was significantly greater in the fracture group . we suggest that this is a predisposing factor for dislocation . 
ten-year results of operations for rheumatoid cervical spine disorders . the outcome of operations performed on 38 patients for rheumatoid disorders of the cervical spine were analysed 10 or more years later . the mean age of the patients at the time of operation was 56 years ( 35 to 77 ) ; 32 had seropositive disease . the mean duration of the disease was 17 years ( four to 36 ) . twenty-seven patients had painful anterior atlanto-axial subluxation ( aas ) , nine had subaxial subluxation alone and two had severe cranial subluxation of the odontoid , one also with subaxial subluxation . one patient died from postoperative staphylococcal septicaemia and another 18 died during the follow-up period . patients with coincident cardiac or other diseases , and those with cranial subluxation of the odontoid of more than 3 mm had an increased mortality . neither the patients ' age nor the magnitude of aas correlated with mortality . of the 37 patients with occipitocervical pain , 30 were relieved and all the six patients with tetraparesis were improved . of the 24 gallie fusions only 12 were solidly united ; patients with long-term cortisone treatment were more likely to develop pseudarthrosis . there was no correlation between clinical outcome and radiological result . four patients had further operations to treat subluxation which developed below the fused segments . 
surgical treatment of double major scoliosis . improvement of the lumbar curve after fusion of the thoracic curve . we have evaluated two methods of surgical treatment of adolescent idiopathic double major scoliosis in 59 patients . in group 1 , 31 patients were treated by fusion of the upper curve only . in group 2 , 28 patients had lumbar fusions also including most of the lower curve . the magnitude of the lower curve and the correction obtained in traction were good indicators of the correction achieved postoperatively . forty-four patients were reviewed at a minimum of 10 years after operation . those in group 1 showed sustained improvement of the lower curve with minimal stiffness and pain . group 2 patients had lumbar curves of similar severity at review , but had significantly more low back pain and stiffness . the number of lumbar segments which remained mobile appeared to be a critical factor in determining the outcome . selective fusion of the upper curve in double major scoliosis produces satisfactory results if the lumbar curve is less than 50 degrees . it may also be appropriate for flexible lumbar curves of larger angle . 
tarsal tunnel syndrome . causes and results of operative treatment . from 1975 to 1988 , operative treatment was performed on 50 feet in 45 patients with tarsal tunnel syndrome . the causes of this syndrome were correlated with operative findings and included ganglia in 18 , and a bony prominence from talocalcaneal coalition in 15 . five feet had sustained an injury , tumours were found in three and there was no obvious cause in nine . in most cases in need of operative treatment , there was a space-occupying lesion . classifying the results according to causes , those with coalition or a tumour fared better , and idiopathic and traumatic cases had a worse outcome . in cases with a definite lesion , an excellent result can be expected from surgical treatment carried out soon after onset of the condition . 
treatment of freiberg 's disease . a new operative technique . a method of treating freiberg 's disease of the metatarsal head by shortening the metatarsal bone is described . this operation has been performed in 15 patients ( 16 feet ) . excellent relief of pain was obtained , although most patients had persistent stiffness of the metatarsophalangeal joint . 
transarticular fixation for severely displaced supracondylar fractures in children . we have reviewed 34 children who had been treated by open reduction through a medial incision and transarticular pinning for a severely displaced supracondylar fracture of the humerus . follow-up ranging from nine months to 20 years showed that 27 of 34 elbows ( 79 % ) had excellent or good results , with satisfactory resolution of neurovascular problems and no complications due to the method of treatment . 
bone lesions secondary to benign phaeochromocytoma . four cases in childhood . metaphyseal sclerotic bone changes associated with benign phaeochromocytoma are very rare in childhood . we report four cases , in each of which the radiographic changes returned to normal after removal of the tumour . 
pseudo-abscess of the psoas bursa in failed double-cup arthroplasty of the hip . seven psoas bursae filled with purulent fluid and inspissated debris were revealed at revision operations for failed resurfacing hip arthroplasties , an incidence of 5.8 % in such revisions . histological and microbiological investigations demonstrated that the psoas bursa collections resulted from the tissue response to polyethylene wear debris . none was due to infection . 
correction of coxa vara in childhood . the use of pauwels ' y-shaped osteotomy . the long-term results following the correction of coxa vara by pauwels ' y-shaped intertrochanteric osteotomy have been evaluated in 14 children . ten of the children had unilateral hip disease and were otherwise normal while four had bilateral hip disease due to generalised skeletal dysplasias . in each case , the growth plate was vertical , the femoral head was displaced inferiorly and there were abnormalities in the metaphysis of the femoral neck . the results indicate that this osteotomy provides lasting correction of the deformity , regardless of the cause , as long as the inclination of the growth plate is corrected to 40 degrees or less and adequate support is provided for the metaphyseal defect and the displaced femoral head . 
joint proprioception in normal , osteoarthritic and replaced knees . we measured joint position sense in the knee by a new method which tests the proprioceptive contribution of the joint capsule and ligaments . the leg was supported on a splint , and held in several positions of flexion . the subjects ' perception of the position was recorded on a visual analogue model and compared with the actual angle of flexion . eighty-one normal and 45 osteoarthritic knees were examined , as were 10 knees with semi-constrained and 11 with hinged joint replacements . all were assessed with and without an elastic bandage around the knee . there was a steady decline in joint position sense with age in subjects with normal knees . those with osteoarthritic knees had impaired joint position sense at all ages ( p less than 0.001 ) . knee replacement improved the joint position sense slightly ( p less than 0.02 ) ; semi-constrained replacement had a greater effect than hinged replacement . the effect of an elastic bandage in subjects with poor position sense was dramatic , improving accuracy by 40 % ( p less than 0.001 ) . it is proposed that reduced proprioception in elderly and osteoarthritic subjects may be responsible for initiation or advancement of degeneration of the knee . 
natural history of nontraumatic avascular necrosis of the femoral head . we studied the natural history of nontraumatic avascular necrosis of the femoral head ( anfh ) in 115 hips in 87 patients , 69 steroid-induced , 21 related to misuse of alcohol and 25 idiopathic . the average length of follow-up was over five years . collapse occurred most often when the focus of bone necrosis occupied the weight-bearing surface of the femoral head . flatness of the head due to subchondral fracture was an early manifestation of collapse . classification into six types based upon the radiographic findings provided an accurate prognosis for individual cases of anfh which is useful in planning treatment and in assessing its outcome . 
long-term results of the evans procedure for lateral instability of the ankle . we studied the late outcome of 40 ankles ( from a consecutive series of 42 ) treated by a modified evans procedure . the peroneus brevis tendon was used to fashion a static tenodesis . all the patients had suffered from persistent lateral instability following an ankle sprain . the follow-up period was between nine and 12 years . excellent or good results were achieved in 33 ankles ( 82.5 % ) , three had a fair result , and four were poor . the clinical results were matched by the radiographic results which showed significant talar tilt or anterior talar translation in only three ankles . the functional result showed no positive correlation with the stress-radiographic analysis . we concluded that this modification of the evans operation gives satisfactory long-term results , which show little change from the good results at 24 to 35 months reported in an earlier paper from our department . 
effect of menopause and hormone replacement therapy on the urinary excretion of pyridinium cross-links . pyridinoline ( pyr ) and deoxypyridinoline ( d-pyr ) are two cross-links of collagen molecules that are present in the extracellular matrix and released during its degradation . in contrast to the wide distribution of collagen , pyr is present in bone and cartilage , but not in significant amounts in other connective tissues , and d-pyr appears to be specific for bone tissue . therefore , the urinary excretion of pyr and d-pyr might be a sensitive marker of bone matrix degradation . using a specific high pressure liquid chromatography assay we have measured pyr and d-pyr cross-links in a 24-h and a fasting urine sample in 60 early postmenopausal women and 19 premenopausal women matched for age . menopause induced a 62 % increase in fu pyr ( 49.8 + / - 18.7 vs. 30.8 + / - 8.0 pmol/mumol creatinine ; p less than 0.001 ) and an 82 % increase in fu d-pyr ( 8.2 + / - 3.4 vs. 4.5 + / - 1.4 pmol/mumol creatinine ; p less than 0.001 ) . in 20 postmenopausal women on hormone replacement therapy , urinary pyr and d-pyr returned to premenopausal levels within 6 months , contrasting with unchanged levels during placebo treatment . the 24-h excretion of pyr and d-pyr was significantly lower than the fasting excretion , but was similarly decreased after hormone replacement therapy . pyr and d-pyr excretion measured in the same urinary sample were highly correlated ( r = 0.85 for fasting and 0.83 for 24-h sampling ) , but correlations between fasting and 24-h values were weak ( d-pyr , r = 0.30 ; pyr , r = 0.29 ; p less than 0.05 for both ) . correlations between urinary cross-links and other markers of bone turnover ( fu hydroxyproline/creatinine and plasma osteocalcin ) were significant but low ( pyr vs. osteocalcin , r = 0.29 , p less than 0.05 ; pyr vs. hydroxyproline , r = 0 / .34 ; p less than 0.01 ; d-pyr vs. osteocalcin , r = 0.39 ; p less than 0.01 ) , except for d-pyr vs. hydroxyproline ( r = 0.24 ; p = 0.07 ) , suggesting that these markers reflect different events of bone metabolism . finally , a single measurement of the fasting excretion , but not of the 24-h excretion , of cross-links was significantly correlated ( pyr , r = 0.34 ; p less than 0.05 ; d-pyr , r = -0.46 ; p less than 0.01 ) , with the subsequent spontaneous rate of bone loss assessed by repeated measurements of the radial bone mineral content in 37 postmenopausal women . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
the course of biochemical parameters of bone turnover during treatment with corticosteroids . the mechanisms by which glucocorticoids cause osteopenia are incompletely understood . it is generally accepted that bone formation is depressed during corticosteroid treatment , but the cause of the ongoing bone resorption is less clear . secondary hyperparathyroidism and changes in vitamin d metabolism are thought to play a role . this is based mostly on data from cross-sectional studies in heterogeneous patient groups . we , therefore , studied longitudinally the course of biochemical parameters and the hormones influencing bone turnover in a homogeneous group of 10 euthyroid patients with graves ' ophthalmopathy , all euthyroid for at least 1 yr before , during , and after a 12-week course of prednisone . bone formation was depressed as reflected by a fall in serum osteocalcin ( 3.0 + / - 2.1 , 1.7 + / - 1.1 , and 2.4 + / - 1.9 micrograms/l at weeks 0 , 4 , and 12 , respectively ; p = 0.02 ) and in total alkaline phosphatase ( 1.15 + / - 0.33 , 0.83 + / - 0.22 , and 0.88 + / - 0.40 mukat/l ; p = 0.001 ) . parameters of bone resorption ( urinary hydroxyproline/creatinine ratio , serum acid phosphatase ) and the levels of vitamin d metabolites remained unchanged . serum intact pth seemed to decrease slightly . our findings suggest that glucocorticoid induced osteopenia is caused by a depressed bone formation in the presence of an unaltered but ongoing bone resorption . secondary hyperparathyroidism and changes in vitamin d metabolism are apparently not involved . 
correlation between serum osteocalcin and 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin d levels in paget 's disease of bone . we have studied the possible correlation between serum 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin d [ 24,25 - ( oh ) 2d ] and osteocalcin levels ( sbgp ) in paget 's disease of bone . we measured serum calcium , phosphate , pth , 25-hydroxyvitamin d , 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d , 24,25 - ( oh ) 2d , alkaline phosphatase ( sap ) , and the urinary hydroxyproline/creatinine ratio ( uoh prol/creat ) in 19 patients with paget 's disease of bone and 16 age - and sex-matched controls . as expected , sap , uoh prol/creat , and sbgp levels were significantly elevated , and there was a tendency to a decrease in serum levels of 24,25 - ( oh ) 2d in pagetic patients with respect to the control group . there was no significant difference between patients and controls in serum calcium , phosphate , pth , 25-hydroxyvitamin d , and 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d . the pagetic patients were subdivided into two subgroups ; subgroup a had normal sbgp levels ( less than 5 ng/ml ) , and subgroup b had increased sbgp levels ( greater than 5 ng/ml ) . serum 24,25 - ( oh ) 2d levels in subgroup b were significantly lower than those in controls , while subgroup a showed levels similar to those in the control group . we also found a positive linear correlation between sap and sbgp and between sap and uoh prol/creat as well as a negative linear correlation between sbgp and 24,25 - ( oh ) 2d and between 24,25 - ( oh ) 2d and uoh prol/creat in pagetic patients . these results point to a possible role of 24,25 - ( oh ) 2d in disease activity . 
ureaplasma urealyticum chronic osteomyelitis in a patient with hypogammaglobulinemia . mycoplasma species are recognized as important pathogens in patients with hypogammaglobulinemia . in this article we describe , for the first time , a patient with hypogammaglobulinemia who developed osteomyelitis of the hip caused by ureaplasma urealyticum . this article emphasizes the need for considering infection with mycoplasma species in patients with antibody deficiency . 
hyposomatomedinemia in men with post-poliomyelitis syndrome . the age of onset of the post-poliomyelitis syndrome ( pps ) coincides with the tendency for declining activity of the growth hormone/somatomedin c ( gh/smc ) axis . the normal plasma smc range in men before the age of 40 is 0.50 to 1.50 units/ml . after age 40 about 30 % of men have a plasma smc level below 0.35 units/ml , signifying no detectable spontaneous gh secretory pulses . because the gh/smc axis stimulates dna , rna , and protein synthesis in muscle cells and increases their size and number , a deficiency of the gh/smc axis could theoretically contribute as a secondary factor to the occurrence or severity of the pps . accordingly , the authors measured the plasma smc level in 10 men with pps , ages 35 to 63 , and in 94 healthy men of similar age . in the pps men , 100 % of the values were less than or equal to 0.40 units/ml , and 90 % were less than or equal to 0.35 units/ml . the corresponding proportions in the healthy men were 40 % and 27 % . analysis of variance including age as a factor showed smc to be significantly lower in the pps men than in the healthy men . in an additional comparison , totally immobile nursing home men did not have lowered smc values . in fact their smc values were slightly higher than those of healthy men of similar age . the data revealed a new biochemical feature of pps , hyposomatomedinemia , which might play a contributory role in the pathogenesis of the syndrome . 
haemangiopericytoma of the temporal bone . haemangiopericytoma is an uncommon vascular tumour with a widespread distribution . although meningeal involvement is well recognized , only a few sporadic cases of temporal bone lesions have been documented , all with doubtful sites of origin . late presentation together with the restrictive anatomy of this region often precludes its effective removal and even minimal residual disease may progress rapidly . a series of three such patients are presented in order to discuss the natural history , histological features and treatment of this disease . 
effect of aortic sclerosis on bone mineral measurements by dual-photon absorptiometry . measurements of the bone mineral content ( bmc ) of lumbar spine by dual-photon absorptiometry ( dpa ) are performed mainly in the anteroposterior ( ap ) projection . due to superimposition of the abdominal aorta , the bmc measured for patients with aortic calcification usually is too high . to determine the influence of aortic calcifications , dpa scans were performed in the ap-projection on 100 dissected abdominal aortae with different degrees of atherosclerosis placed on a human lumbar spine cast in lucite . the measured values were compared with those obtained in the same projection without the aortae . the average increase of the bmc values relative to the mean for the vertebrae l2 to l4 for aortae with severe complicated lesions , i.e. , those containing larger amounts of calcium , was 0.03 g/cm2 , with a maximum deviation of 0.09 g/cm2 . aortae with fatty streaks or fibrous plaques did not cause significant increases of the bmc . the mean deviation for aortae with mild complicated lesions , i.e. , those containing smaller amounts of calcium , was within the range of instrument precision . 
isolated muscular sarcoidosis causing fever of unknown origin : the value of gallium-67 imaging . an unusual case of a patient with a long-standing fever of unknown origin ( fuo ) is presented whose gallium-67 ( 67ga ) images revealed increased activity only in the calf muscles bilaterally . other imaging modalities also failed to show chest or other abnormal findings . subsequent biopsy of the right gastrocnemius muscle revealed noncaseating granulomas consistent with the diagnosis of sarcoidosis . when using 67ga to evaluate a patient with a fuo , imaging of the extremities should always be included . also , when abnormal ga-67 uptake is present in the extremities , sarcoidosis should be included in the differential diagnosis . 
gallium uptake in tryptophan-related pulmonary disease . we describe a patient who developed fever , fatigue , muscle weakness , dyspnea , skin rash , and eosinophilia after taking " high doses " of tryptophan for insomnia for two years . a gallium-67 scan revealed diffuse increased uptake in the lung and no abnormal uptake in the muscular distribution . bronchoscopy and biopsy confirmed inflammatory reactions with infiltration by eosinophils , mast cells , and lymphocytes . ct scan showed an interstitial alveolar pattern without fibrosis . emg demonstrated diffuse myopathy . muscle biopsy from the right thigh showed an inflammatory myositis with eosinophilic and lymphocytic infiltrations . 
aluminum accumulation during treatment with aluminum hydroxide and dialysis in children and young adults with chronic renal disease background . the control of hyperphosphatemia is a major clinical problem in patients with chronic renal failure receiving regular dialysis treatment . despite continuing concern about aluminum toxicity , aluminum-containing antacids are still used in many of these patients as phosphate-binding agents . although maximal acceptable doses of aluminum hydroxide have been recommended , the safety and efficacy of these guidelines have not been evaluated . methods . seventeen children and young adults ( mean [ + / - sd ] age , 14.1 + / - 3.7 years ) undergoing regular peritoneal dialysis were randomly assigned to treatment with either aluminum hydroxide ( n = 7 ; maximal dose , 30 mg per kilogram of body weight per day ) or calcium carbonate ( n = 10 ; dose range , 2.5 to 12 g per day , according to serum phosphorus levels ) . aluminum retention was assessed by serial measurements of plasma aluminum , deferoxamine-infusion tests , and measurements of bone aluminum content during a mean ( + / - sd ) follow-up of 13 + / - 2 months . the evolution of bone disease was also evaluated . results . plasma aluminum levels and the increment in plasma aluminum after infusion of deferoxamine increased from base-line values in the patients treated with aluminum hydroxide , and aluminum-related bone disease developed in one patient . serum phosphorus levels remained higher and serum calcium levels lower in the patients receiving aluminum hydroxide than in those receiving calcium carbonate . the skeletal lesions of secondary hyperparathyroidism improved in 7 of 10 patients receiving calcium carbonate but persisted or progressed in 6 of 7 patients given aluminum hydroxide ( p less than 0.025 ) . conclusions . aluminum hydroxide is less effective than calcium carbonate as a phosphate-binding agent for the control of hyperphosphatemia and is associated with aluminum retention in children and young adults with chronic renal failure who are receiving dialysis therapy . 
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of l-tryptophan : muscle biopsy findings in 4 patients . muscle biopsies of 4 patients with the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome associated with ingestion of l-tryptophan showed lymphocytic infiltrates with occasional eosinophils largely restricted to interstitial fibrous tissue and perivascular areas . there was inflammation and fibrosis of muscle spindle capsules in 3 patients . in the 2 sickest patients , there was profound muscle atrophy , affecting both muscle fiber types . 
the " numb cheek-limp lower lid " syndrome . a patient developed isolated numbness , 1st confined to the lateral nose and upper lip , but later involving the cheek , lower lip , upper gingiva , and the palate . this numbness was later associated with paresis of the muscles of the upper lip and angle of the mouth and with ipsilateral lower lid droop ( the " numb cheek-limp lower lid " syndrome ) . squamous cell carcinoma was discovered infiltrating the infraorbital nerve and distal branches of the facial nerve . cheek numbness associated with lower eyelid or upper lip weakness may herald a neoplasm affecting the infraorbital nerve and distal facial nerve branches . 
stimulation of dorsal root ganglia and degradation of rabbit annulus fibrosus . the authors sought to determine whether narrowing of the intervertebral neural foramen , by itself and in association with vibration , would stimulate the mechanosensitive dorsal root ganglia and result in degradation of proteoglycan and collagen of the annulus fibrosus , as proposed in their working model of dorsal root ganglia-neuropeptide-mediated degeneration of the spinal motion segment . degradation of proteoglycan and collagen of rabbit annulus was observed when there was narrowing of the neural foremen and the degradation process was accelerated by vibration . vibration alone , in the absence of structural abnormalities of the spinal motion segment , did not induce matrix degradation probably because of a less pronounced stimulation of the dorsal root ganglia . biological events similar to those postulated here , fomented by a combination of structural abnormalities and environmental factors , could be involved in human disc degeneration . 
coexistence of cervical and lumbar disc disease . a retrospective analysis of 200 patients requiring cervical disc surgery was performed to determine the frequency of coexistent lumbar disc or spine abnormalities . the duration of follow-up ranged from 5 to 25 years , averaging 14 years . sixty percent were women and 40 % were men , their ages ranging from 25-73 years . antecedent motor vehicle injury had occurred in 49 cases and work injury to the spine in 23 . sixty-four percent had no history of prior back injury . it was found that over 31 % had undergone lumbar disc surgery , and a high number of patients demonstrated abnormal lumbar radiographs or myelograms , including 78 with bulging discs , 100 with major root defects , 78 with minor root defects , 8 with spinal stenosis , and 7 with spondylolisthesis . myelograms were normal in 22 cases . the sites of lumbar abnormalities included l4-5 ( 110 ) , l5-s1 ( 90 ) , and multilevel ( 8 ) . there was a higher incidence of lumbar disc abnormalities associated with multilevel cervical spondylosis . there also was a relationship between residual symptoms and myelographic abnormalities . two studies in the authors ' institution suggest an autoimmune basis for the frequent coexistence of cervical and lumbar disc disease , namely the demonstration of antigenic properties in the nucleus pulposus and high serum immunoglobulins . 
pyogenic spinal sepsis in adults . twenty adult patients presented with bacteriologically and histologically proven nontuberculous spinal sepsis . thirteen patients presented with varying degrees of neurologic impairment . all patients underwent spinal decompression ; in 11 this was combined with an anterior fusion using autogenous tricortical iliac grafts . all patients have recovered and are ambulatory , and no patient 's disorder was made worse by surgery . twenty-three separate organisms were cultured , only five of which were staphylococcus . the antibiotic courses were shorter and pain relief more rapid with anterior fusion . all anterior bone grafts incorporated rapidly , and there was no progression of kyphosis or sequestration of grafts , regardless of organisms or level . the rational treatment of adult spinal sepsis necessitates the securing of tissue from the spine for histologic and bacteriologic examination . pain relief , stabilization , and neural decompression can best be achieved with anterior decompression and fusion . autogenous iliac crest grafts incorporate in the presence of sepsis . 
scoliosis in trisomy 18 . patients with trisomy 18 typically present with multiple congenital anomalies and most die within the first year . however , long-term survivors are not uncommon . seventeen patients with trisomy 18 were evaluated to study the development of scoliosis associated with this disorder . there were 13 females and 4 males with ages ranging from birth to 22 years . twelve patients died by age 2 . none developed scoliosis or had vertebral anomalies . the five patients who survived beyond age 2 developed scoliosis . curve progression was demonstrated in the patients who returned for follow-up . bracing was not well tolerated in two patients with curves of 48 degrees and 58 degrees . both had poor motor control and sitting ability . one patient with a 30 degree curve was successfully managed by bracing . another patient with a severe scoliosis was successfully fused with anterior and posterior instrumentation . patients with trisomy 18 should be carefully evaluated for scoliosis . scoliosis in the older child , surviving beyond age 2 , may be progressive and difficult to manage . 
nighttime bracing for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis with the charleston bending brace . preliminary report . the authors report their preliminary experience with the charleston bending brace for the treatment of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis . this brace holds the patient in the position of maximum side bend correction and is worn only at night . patients in this prospective multicentered study met all the following criteria : skeletal immaturity ( risser 0 , 1 + , or 2 + ) , curvature greater than 25 degrees before bracing , no prior treatment , and greater than 1-year follow-up since initiation of treatment . there were 191 structural curves in the 139 patients . one hundred fifteen patients ( 83 % ) showed improvement or less than 5 degree change in curvature . twenty-four patients ( 17 % ) demonstrated an increase in curvature greater than 5 degrees . based on these preliminary results , continued use of bending brace treatment at nighttime only is justified for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis . patients with double curves should be observed closely for increase in compensatory curves . 
analysis of sagittal plane instability of the lumbar spine in vivo . segmental instability secondary to degenerative disc disease may result in chronic low-back pain . in the sagittal plane , segmental instability can be characterized during lumbar motion from full extension to full flexion . the authors studied this movement using a translational method for the kinematic analysis , implementing a new concept known as the instability factor . both translational and angular components of motion are evaluated . by computing the incremental motion parameters at different stages of spinal bending , the total amount of translation and angulation is obtained and combined in a ratio termed the instability factor . this factor increases with linear instability and decreases with rotational instability . the authors reviewed 12 control subjects and 36 patients with chronic low-back pain . the diagnoses of patients were categorized into three groups : idiopathic low-back pain , lumbar disc prolapse , and degenerative disc disease . lateral radiographs of each subject 's spine at the l4-5 level were obtained using low dose radiography and were performed serially as the subjects moved from full extension to full flexion . it was found that the group of patients with degenerative disc disease had an average age-corrected instability factor of 37.3 ( mm/radian ) , which was significantly larger than that of normal subjects 25.5 ( mm/radian ) , ( p = 0.0065 ) . no significant difference was seen in the instability factor of patients with idiopathic low-back pain or lumbar disc prolapse . 
spinal rehabilitation by work tolerance based on objective physical capacity assessment of dysfunction . a prospective study with control subjects and twelve-month review . a work tolerance program was used for rehabilitation treatment of 45 patients with spinal dysfunction . patients entering the treatment group were prospectively evaluated by objective physical capacity assessment ( pca ) . treatment patients averaged 4 weeks of three , one half day sessions per week . these patients were compared with a control group of 33 patients who did not participate in the rehabilitation program but were evaluated by pca . a telephone review of all patients in each group was carried out at 6 - and 12-month follow-up . results demonstrated that 78 % of the rehabilitation treatment group were discharged with an improved functional work capacity . most importantly , at 6-month follow-up , 73.0 % of patients in the treatment group were productively working while only 38 % of control group patients were actively employed . in addition , 84.4 % showed an improvement in spinal range of motion . the subjective pain scale ratings of these treatment patients demonstrated only 44.4 % decreased pain , while 51.1 % stayed the same , and two patients increased discomfort . further medical diagnostics or intervention was required in 24.4 % of treatment patients . these findings definitely show that a spinal rehabilitation work-tolerance program based on objective measurement will enhance an increased rate of return to productive employment activity . there is poor correlation of subjective pain assessment when compared to objective pcas . therefore , recommendations of patients for return-to-productive work should be based pain ratings . when adjusted for nonselection patients , the authors community-based hospital program showed similar results to other programs . the work tolerance and rehabilitation program in concord , new hampshire , demonstrated a significant cost-effective approach ; being less expensive , less time-consuming , and less psychologically oriented . 
analysis of spinal and muscular activity during flexion/extension and free lifts . detailed measurements of the relative contributions of spine motion and pelvic motion during flexion-extension and free lifts ( squat-type ) are examined . the results are consistent with the conclusion that passive stretching of the ligamentous tissues transmits significant extensor moment in these activities , the power being supplied by the hip extensor complex acting on the pelvis . in addition , certain injuries result in measurable changes in the kinematic parameters that determine the ligamentous involvement , and these changes can be used to help evaluate spinal condition . 
lumbar isthmic spondylolisthesis in children and adolescents . radiologic evaluation and results of operative treatment . a clinical and radiologic follow-up study of a group of 75 children and adolescents , comprised of both boys and girls , who underwent spondylodesis for spondylolisthesis between the years 1979 and 1984 is reported . sagittal rotation , lumbosacral joint angle , lumbar lordosis , wedging of olisthetic vertebrae , and the rounding of the upper sacrum showed considerable statistical correlation to the amount of slipping and accordingly should be noted when estimating the risk of progression of the spondylolisthesis . when the spondylolisthesis was accompanied by scoliosis , it was noted that seriousness of the former was closely correlated to that of the latter . most patients profited by the operation , and solid fusion was achieved in almost all cases . the posterolateral spondylolysis performed using graft from the iliac crest , the interbody fusion technique , or their combination turned out to be the most reliable surgical methods . the combined technique was especially required in cases with a high degree of slipping . 
knodt rod distraction instrumentation in lumbosacral arthrodesis . review of 40 patients undergoing lumbosacral fusions over a 4-year period was done to determine the value , efficiency , and safety of knodt rod distraction instrumentation . the age range was 30-80 years . mean age was 51 years . follow-up was 1-4 years . twenty patients underwent decompression and fusion for spinal stenosis , nine underwent spinal arthrodesis for instability , six underwent the same for spondylolisthesis , and five underwent fusions for other diagnoses . a posterior midline approach was used . laminal hook sites were prepared , and care was taken to prevent dural compression or tenting . balanced distraction was done to restore soft tissue tension and stability . no attempt was made to reduce deformity . a posterior and lateral mass fusion augmented with allograft bone was performed on all but three patients , in whom autogenous bone was used . the majority of patients were placed in a custom-molded lumbosacral orthosis for 3-6 months after operation . there were no neurologic complications , dural tears , or pseudomeningoceles . the first sacral laminas were instrumented in 22 patients . nine of the 40 patients underwent rod removal . reasons for removal were pain due to loosening in five patients and failure of fusion in two . on rod removal in two patients , no abnormality was found . insertion within the sacral laminas did not lead to neurologic complications . the major problem appeared to be loosening , which necessitated rod removal in 12 % of the patients . knodt rod distraction instrumentation is a safe and effective method of internal fixation for lumbosacral fusions . 
vascular and nonvascular expression of incam-110 . a target for mononuclear leukocyte adhesion in normal and inflamed human tissues . inducible cell adhesion molecule 110 ( incam-110 ) , is a 110-kd adhesion receptor for lymphocytes and monocytes identified on cytokine-activated endothelium . using immunoperoxidase techniques , little or no incam-110 was detected on endothelium in normal human tissues . in contrast , incam-110 was expressed in postcapillary venules in a variety of active inflammatory processes . in acute appendicitis , incam-110 was found coincident with strong expression of endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 ( elam-1 ) , a cytokine-inducible molecule that functions in neutrophil adhesion . however , in certain chronic inflammatory processes ( eg , sarcoidosis ) , incam-110 was observed without simultaneous elam-1 expression . anti-incam-110 antibody e1/6 also marked several extravascular cell types , including lymphoid dendritic cells , some tissue macrophages , synovial lining cells , and reactive mesothelial cells . these data suggest a role for endothelial incam-110 in the pathophysiology of both acute and chronic inflammatory reactions . furthermore incam-110 may function as an adhesion molecule for mononuclear leukocytes in a variety of extravascular sites . 
stapes surgery in osteogenesis imperfecta : analysis of postoperative hearing loss . the disappointing results in 12 of 58 stapedectomies , including 4 revision operations , performed on osteogenesis imperfecta patients were analyzed and compared with reports in the literature . it is concluded that the results described as disappointing were not always the product of the stapes operation . a progressive sensorineural hearing loss arising independently of the operation as a result of progression in the disease process of osteogenesis imperfecta appears to have a severe influence on the final hearing threshold . 
skull base malignancy following long-term sinus mucocele and osteomyelitis . a case of skull base malignancy following long-term sinus mucocele is presented . while the similarity in clinical signs between sinus mucocele and malignancy has recently been emphasized in the literature , no previous case of skull base malignancy following frontoethmoid mucocele has been reported . the literature is reviewed and the association between inflammatory conditions and sinus malignancy is outlined . 
serum levels of bone gla-protein in inhabitants exposed to environmental cadmium . serum levels of bone gla-protein ( bgp ) -- the vitamin k-dependent ca2 ( + ) - binding protein -- were evaluated in 76 cadmium ( cd ) - exposed subjects with renal tubular dysfunction ( 32 men , 44 women ) and 133 nonexposed subjects ( 53 men , 80 women ) . serum bgp levels were higher in the cd-exposed subjects than in nonexposed subjects . significant correlations between bgp and each index measured by bone microdensitometry ( md ) , serum alkaline phosphatase activity , and cd in blood and urine were found . for all of the cd-exposed and nonexposed men and women , bgp showed a significant standard partial regression coefficient ( multiple regression analysis ) with the metacarpal index ( mci ) , which was one of the md indicators . bone gla-protein also correlated significantly with urinary beta 2-microglobulin in the men and with serum creatinine in the women . serum bgp values strongly reflect the degree of bone damage and also reflect , although less strongly , the degree of renal damage induced by exposure to cd . 
lipomatous hamartoma of the orbit . proliferations of mature adipose tissue , while common in retroperitoneal and subcutaneous sites , rarely occur in the orbit . we describe the clinical , radiographic , and histopathologic findings of a nonencapsulated lipomatous tissue overgrowth of the right orbit in a 35-year-old man . the mass had caused proptosis since childhood and was apparently present since birth . due to the age at onset , the histologic similarity to normal orbital fat , and the lack of encapsulation or choristomatous elements , we propose the term lipomatous hamartoma for this entity . 
microscopically assisted posterior lumbar interbody fusion . microscopically assisted posterior lumbar interbody fusion was performed on 27 patients who had either spondylolisthesis or chronic lower back pain after previous lower back surgery . overall improved satisfactory results occurred in 22 of 27 patients . roentgenographic , stable , interbody fusion occurred in 22 of 27 patients . the poorest results and highest rate of pseudarthrosis occurred in patients with double-level fusions . pseudarthrosis occurred in four of six patients with double-level fusions and unsatisfactory clinical results occurred in five of six patients with double-level fusions . advantages of the microscopic technique are better examination of the surgical site , less blood loss , and less surgical dissection than other surgical salvage techniques . this procedure should be reserved for single-level pathology in the lumbosacral spine . 
the role of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles in glenohumeral kinematics of anterior should instability . to investigate a socket mechanism responsible for controlling the kinematics in the statically positioned glenohumeral joint , a suprascapular nerve block was performed in 13 selected patients , with recurrent anterior instability and defects of the labrum . kinematics were then documented by roentgenograms in four positions within the horizontal motion plane . combined paralysis of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles resulted in abnormal anterior translation in only two of 47 roentgenograms . normal ball-and-socket kinematics were retained in the remaining 45 roentgenograms . the consistent arthroscopic findings were an undamaged glenoid articular surface with a detached or absent labrum . the injury to the labrum reduced the depth of the socket by one-half . the other one-half of the socket provided by the contour of the glenoid remained intact . a balanced muscle envelope was not required to maintain normal kinematics in selected , actively positioned , unstable shoulders . the retained glenoid depth was sufficient to produce the observed ball-and-socket kinematics . further in vivo study of shoulder kinematics will be needed to clarify the interactive roles of the socket and muscle envelope in maintaining glenohumeral stability during the more demanding stresses during active shoulder motion . 
local antibiotic delivery in the treatment of bone and joint infections . antibiotics can be delivered locally via an implantable pump to treat bone and joint infections . this is a completely closed system , and the pump is refilled percutaneously at intervals based on its flow rate . the use of this method is described in three specific clinical situations : ( 1 ) resistant osteomyelitis ( patients with persistent infections despite previous therapy ) , ( 2 ) acutely infected arthroplasties ( symptomatic for less than six weeks ) , and ( 3 ) chronically infected arthroplasties ( patients infected more than six weeks ) . in all three clinical situations , hospitalization time was shortened , and high local and low systemic levels of antibiotic were obtained . there was only one incident of side effects to the antibiotic used . this method has been successful in obtaining long-term suppression of infection in 30 of 42 patients with resistant osteomyelitis , 30 of 37 patients with acutely infected arthroplasties , and seven of ten patients with chronically infected arthroplasties . the complication unique to this method of therapy is pump-site and catheter-site infections . this occurred in three patients with recalcitrant osteomyelitis and three patients with acutely infected arthroplasties . 
periprosthetic chronic inflammation characterized through the measurement of superoxide anion production by synovial-derived macrophages . periprosthetic macrophages were isolated from the synovium of primary and revision arthroplasty patients . inflammatory activity was determined by the level of superoxide ( o2 - ) production de novo and in response to phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) stimulation . nonstimulated primary arthroplasty-derived macrophages produced 2.54 + / - 2.04 pmoles of o2 - / minute/10 ( 5 ) cells . when identical reaction tubes were stimulated with pma , o2 - levels increased to 5.76 + / - 3.77 pmol of o2 - / minute/10 ( 5 ) cells . nonstimulated revision arthroplasty-derived macrophages produced 3.26 + / - 2.02 pmol of o2 - / minute/10 ( 5 ) cells during this ten-minute time period . when identical reaction tubes were stimulated with pma , o2 - levels increased to 3.98 + / - 2.52 pmol of o2 - / minute/10 ( 5 ) cells . the difference in the ratio of o2 - production in response to stimulation between primary and revision groups was statistically significant . the observation of a chronic moderate level of activation and the lack of responsiveness to a potent stimulator suggests that macrophage inflammatory activity is down-regulated in periprosthetic synovium . 
a histologic and immunohistochemical study of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystal deposition disease . the articular cartilage , synovial membrane , and meniscus from ten patients who had calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate ( cppd ) crystal deposition disease showed strong immunoreactivity for dermatan sulfate proteoglycan , type i collagen , and s-100 protein in hypertrophic chondrocytes around the crystals , their pericellular matrix , and deposits of the crystals . electron microscopy revealed that small crystals were formed around the hypertrophic chondrocytes , especially in the degenerated matrix containing electron-dense granular materials and cellular debris . chondrocytes of this kind were never observed in the articular tissue from ten patients who had osteoarthrosis . these hypertrophic chondrocytes with several unique immunohistochemical characteristics may initiate the formation of cppd crystals . 
hereditary internal anal sphincter myopathy causing proctalgia fugax and constipation . a newly identified condition . a newly identified myopathy of the internal anal sphincter is described . in the affected family , at least one member from each of five generations had severe proctalgia fugax ; onset was usually in the third to fifth decades of life . three members of the family have been studied in detail . each had severe pain intermittently during the day and hourly during the night . constipation was an associated symptom , in particular difficulty with rectal evacuation . clinically the internal anal sphincter was thickened and of decreased compliance . the maximum anal canal pressure was usually increased with marked ultraslow wave activity . anal endosonography confirmed a grossly thickened internal anal sphincter . two patients were treated by internal anal sphincter strip myectomy ; one showed marked improvement and one was relieved of the constipation but had only slight improvement of the pain . the hypertrophied muscle in two of the patients showed unique myopathic changes , consisting of vacuolar changes with periodic acid-schiff-positive polyglycosan bodies in the smooth muscle fibers and increased endomysial fibrosis . in vitro organ-bath studies showed insensitivity of the muscle to noradrenaline , isoprenaline , carbachol , dimethylpiperazinium , and electrical-field stimulation . immunohistochemical studies for substance p , calcitonin gene-related peptide , galanin , neuropeptide y , and vasoactive intestinal peptide showed staining in a similar distribution to that in control tissue . a specific autosomal-dominant inherited myopathy of the internal anal sphincter that causes anal pain and constipation has been identified and characterized . 
familial cervical dysplasia . nine of twelve family members from three generations were affected by an inherited form of cervical vertebral dysplasia . all of the affected people had an abnormality of the first cervical vertebra . some also had defects of the axis and caudad to it . the mode of transmission of the disorder is autosomal dominant , with apparently complete penetrance and variable expressivity . two patients had symptoms . one had a passively correctable tilt of the head , with an associated audible clunk and hypoplasia of the left superior facet of the second cervical vertebra . this patient had no local symptoms , neurological involvement , or muscle spasm . in the other patient , suboccipital pain developed . radiographs revealed an anterior atlanto-occipital dislocation . the symptoms resolved after reduction and arthrodesis . because of the apparently complete penetrance of this disorder , physicians caring for patients who have this type of congenital malformation of the cervical spine should consider examination of closely related members of the family . clinical findings such as tilting of the head , torticollis , or limitation of cervical motion suggest that additional evaluation should be done . the examination should include lateral radiographs of the cervical spine in flexion and extension . three-dimensional computed-tomography reformatting was helpful in demonstrating the complex cervical anatomy in our patients . patients who have recognized abnormalities should be followed and should be re-examined whenever local or neurological symptoms develop . a magnetic resonance image of the spine in flexion and extension was valuable for identification of the potentially disastrous situation of impending damage to the cord in patients who had instability and evolving symptoms . 
the role of venous hypertension in the pathogenesis of legg-perthes disease . a clinical and experimental study . thirty-two patients in whom legg-perthes disease apparently involved only one hip were examined with venography , measurement of intraosseous and intra-articular pressures , arthrography , and dynamic triphasic bone-imaging with 99mtc methylene diphosphonate . the arterial flow of blood in the affected femoral head was slightly decreased , but the difference from that on the normal side was not statistically significant . however , there was marked disturbance of the venous drainage in the diseased hip , elevated intraosseous pressure in the affected femoral neck , and increased intra-articular pressure in the involved hip compared with the normal side . an animal model was then created in twenty immature dogs , venous drainage was obstructed , and intraosseous pressure of the femoral head and neck was elevated by injection of four milliliters of semiliquid silicone into the femoral neck . in eleven of the dogs , areas of avascular necrosis resembling those associated with legg-perthes disease developed in the femoral head . 
treatment of de quervain tenosynovitis . a prospective study of the results of injection of steroids and immobilization in a splint . in a prospective study of non-operative treatment of de quervain tenosynovitis , ninety-nine wrists of ninety-five consecutively seen patients who had this diagnosis had an injection of one milliliter of a 1 per cent lidocaine solution and one milliliter of a suspension containing forty milligrams of methylprednisolone acetate . twelve patients ( twelve wrists ) were lost to follow-up . of the remaining eighty-seven wrists , fifty-four ( 62 per cent ) had a satisfactory outcome at a mean of eighteen months ( minimum follow-up , twelve months ) . the duration of symptoms before treatment did not affect the outcome . the result in thirty-three wrists ( 38 per cent ) was considered unsatisfactory . thirty of these wrists were subsequently treated with operative release of the first dorsal compartment , and twenty-two ( 73 per cent ) of the thirty were found to have a separate compartment for the extensor pollicis brevis . the prevalence of a separate compartment is significantly higher than that in the general population , as shown in anatomical studies of cadavera . 
management of pseudarthrosis after arthrodesis of the spine for idiopathic scoliosis . sixty-three first , second , or third-time repairs of one or more pseudarthroses were done in fifty-one patients who had had an arthrodesis for idiopathic scoliosis . forty-five of the patients were female and six were male . the average age was 30.2 years . the indications for the sixty-three repairs were pain ( twenty-five repairs ) , progression of the curve ( sixteen ) , both pain and progression of the curve ( twelve ) , and radiographic changes only ( ten ) . failure of the implant was identified before 27 per cent of the sixty-three procedures . the pseudarthroses were diagnosed an average of 2.8 years after the initial arthrodeses . sixty-eight per cent of the defects were visible on plain radiographs preoperatively and 32 per cent were identified at operation . during the time between the original arthrodeses and the repairs of the pseudarthroses , the scolioses increased by a mean of 7 degrees and the kyphoses , by a mean of 10 degrees . harrington distraction was the most commonly used instrumentation ( twenty-six [ 41 per cent ] of the sixty-three procedures ) , and autogenous iliac bone was the most commonly used material for the graft ( thirty-three [ 52 per cent ] of the procedures ) . 
valgus deformities of the feet and characteristics of gait in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis . to investigate the cause of valgus deformity of the hindfoot in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis and to characterize the effects of the deformity on gait , two groups of patients were evaluated clinically , radiographically , and with gait analysis in the laboratory . group 1 consisted of seven patients who had seropositive rheumatoid arthritis and normal alignment of the feet and group 2 , of ten patients who had rheumatoid arthritis and valgus deformity of the hindfoot . in group 2 , the disease was of longer duration and the feet were more painful than in group 1 . there was no evidence of muscular imbalance , equinus contracture , valgus deformity of the tibiotalar joint , or isolated deficiency of the tibialis posterior ( such as weakness , tenosynovitis , or rupture of the tendon ) that could have contributed to the development of the valgus deformity . in the patients who had valgus deformity , quantitated electromyography demonstrated that the intensity and duration of activity of the tibialis posterior was significantly increased , apparently in an effort to support the collapsing longitudinal arch of the foot . gait studies revealed decreases in velocity , stride length , and single-limb-support time , as well as delayed heel-rise in both groups , but the decreases were more marked in the patients who had valgus deformity . the results of this study suggest that valgus deformity of the hindfoot in rheumatoid patients results from exaggerated pronation forces on the weakened and inflamed subtalar joint . these forces are caused by alterations in gait secondary to symmetrical muscular weakness and the effort of the patient to minimize pain in the feet . radiographs also suggested an association between the valgus deformity of the feet and valgus deformity of the knees in patients who have rheumatoid arthritis . 
cardiac arrest during hip arthroplasty with a cemented long-stem component . a report of seven cases . seven patients had a cardiac arrest during hip arthroplasty with a cemented long-stem femoral component . four patients died in the operating room , and three patients were successfully resuscitated . when the three survivors were eventually discharged from the hospital , they had no known permanent cardiac , pulmonary , or neurological sequelae . factors that were common to all of the patients were advanced age , osteoporotic bone , a previously undisturbed intramedullary canal , and use of a long-stem femoral component and several batches of methylmethacrylate . hip arthroplasty with a long-stem femoral component is associated with substantial risk in these patients . excessive pressurization of cement should be avoided , and invasive hemodynamic monitoring should be used when the described conditions are present . 
reconstruction of the chronically insufficient anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament . the results of reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament with the central third of the patellar ligament as a free , autogenous , non-vascularized graft were retrospectively reviewed at our institution . eighty reconstructions in seventy-nine patients were evaluated after a minimum of two years . in forty-eight ( 60 per cent ) of the knees , the reconstruction was augmented with an extra-articular lateral sling of iliotibial band . the patients were evaluated with a physical examination , a kt-1000 arthrometer , radiographs , a subjective questionnaire , and a revision of the scale of the hospital for special surgery for rating ligaments . postoperatively , seventy-six ( 95 per cent ) of the eighty knees no longer gave way , and the pivot-shift test was negative in sixty-seven ( 84 per cent ) of the knees . the average score on the ligament-rating scale was 93 points . all of the patients who had clinical instability at the time of the most recent follow-up had associated ligamentous instability that had not been appreciated or addressed at the time of reconstruction . arthrometric evaluation revealed that the laxity differed by three millimeters or less from that of the untreated knee in sixty ( 76 per cent ) of the treated knees . in the patient who had bilateral reconstruction , the laxity was the same in both knees . seventeen patients , who had more than three millimeters of translation , also had additional related ligamentous instability , most commonly posterolateral instability and insufficiency of the medial collateral ligament . we think that major associated ligamentous instability predisposes the reconstruction to failure and should be corrected in conjunction with the reconstruction . 
contracturing granulomatous myositis : a separate entity . granulomatous muscle disease is most commonly seen in sarcoidosis , but may be seen in association with a wide variety of other disorders or in isolation . patients with granulomatous myositis usually present with slowly progressive muscle pain and weakness affecting mainly proximal muscles . there are , however , a few reports of granulomatous muscle disease presenting with flexion contractures of the limbs . two further patients with granulomatous muscle disease and flexion contractures of the limbs , but with no evidence of systemic granulomatous disease , is presented . it is suggested that such patients represent a separate clinical entity that is distinct from idiopathic granulomatous myositis presenting with muscle pain and weakness . the association of contracturing granulomatous myositis with a long-standing vasculitis in one patient suggests that the two conditions may be related . 
juvenile intervertebral disc calcification : recognition , management , and pathogenesis . juvenile intervertebral disc calcification is an uncommon disorder of childhood , characterized by calcification of the nucleus pulposus of one or more intervertebral discs . calcification may remain dormant or subsequently become symptomatic . the symptoms include fever , malaise , and neck pain and are associated with an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate and , occasionally , leukocytosis . although disc protrusion occurs in 38 % of patients , neurological signs are distinctly uncommon . we report the case of a patient with a herniated t2-t3 calcified intervertebral disc and compressive myelopathy . juvenile intervertebral disc calcification is generally a self-limiting disease that seldom requires an operation . the symptoms are transient , and resorption of the disc calcification is the rule once symptoms occur . neither the cause of the disc calcification nor the trigger for the onset of symptoms is known . an inflammatory response within the disc appears to give rise to clinical symptoms and is associated with eventual resorption of the disc calcification . 
the caspar microsurgical discectomy and comparison with a conventional standard lumbar disc procedure . the outcome in 119 patients who were operated on with a conventional standard lumbar discectomy procedure was retrospectively compared with that in 299 patients who were operated on with a microsurgical discectomy technique developed in homburg/saar , federal republic of germany by the senior author ( w.c. ) . all patients in this consecutive series had " virgin " lumbar radiculopathy evaluated and operated upon by two experienced surgeons at one institution . determination of the final outcome was made objectively by an impartial third party using identical criteria for both groups , and with a patient self-evaluation form . the study looked at various pertinent aspects of the treatment course and at final outcome . the results in the microsurgical group were significantly favorable : fewer levels were explored : there was less operative blood loss and a decreased incidence of deep venous thrombosis , urinary tract infections , pulmonary emboli , and bladder catheterization ; the time to full ambulation , discharge , and return to work was faster : and there was a decrease in change of occupation and a greater percentage of satisfactory final outcomes , as measured both objectively and subjectively . a description of the microsurgical technique used in this study , which differs significantly from existing microdisectomy techniques , is presented . the authors conclude that the microsurgical disectomy technique presented in this study is a safe and effective approach to the treatment of lumbar radiculopathy . 
tibial collateral ligament bursa : mr imaging . the bursa of the tibial collateral ligament ( tcl ) may be visualized at magnetic resonance ( mr ) imaging when it becomes distended with fluid . in the authors ' experience , this finding signifies a pathologic condition either in the medial capsuloligamentous complex or in the bursa itself . such a finding may indicate tcl bursitis . tcl bursitis can be suspected in the setting of isolated pain in the medial joint line in the absence of mechanical symptoms . prolonged relief of symptoms after injection of steroid into the bursa is supportive of the diagnosis . seven cases are presented in which a fluid-filled tcl bursa was identified at mr imaging . in five cases , tcl bursitis was suspected . the differential diagnosis for the mr findings is discussed . 
mycetoma : comparison of mr imaging with ct . magnetic resonance ( mr ) images obtained in 18 patients with pathologically confirmed mycetoma in the body ( n = 4 ) or lower extremity ( n = 14 ) were retrospectively reviewed and compared with computed tomographic ( ct ) scans in 15 patients and surgical findings in 10 . t1-weighted images showed an infiltrating mass ( same signal intensity as muscle ) involving skin , subcutaneous fat , muscles , tendons , and other tissues . on t2-weighted images , the mass and affected structures showed moderately increased signal intensity . bone marrow involvement was detected in seven patients and was best visualized on t1-weighted images . ct showed moderate enhancement of the infiltrative process in all patients . bone changes , seen in nine , included coarse trabeculation , periosteal reaction , endosteal proliferation , and patchy destruction . mr imaging and ct were comparable and correlated well with surgery in showing the extent of soft-tissue involvement . early bone changes ( important for therapy planning for pedal mycetoma ) were seen only at ct . the study showed that mr imaging is sensitive for assessing the extent of mycetoma in the soft tissues . ct should be the method of choice for staging pedal lesions because it can be used to detect early bone involvement . 
deposition of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals in the ligamentum flavum : evaluation with mr imaging and ct . four patients had spinal canal stenosis associated with deposition of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate within the ligamentum flavum . radiologic evaluation was performed with magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography , and surgery was performed on all four patients . pathologic examination of the surgical specimens demonstrated deposits of calcium pyrophosphate crystals within the ligamentum flavum . focal enlargement of the ligamentum flavum was present in the cervical spine ( n = 1 ) , while a more diffuse , bilateral enlargement was identified in the lumbar spine ( n = 3 ) . enlargement of the ligament either caused or was a component of spinal stenosis that caused neurologic signs or symptoms . three of the patients had evidence of calcium pyrophosphate deposition elsewhere . deposition of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate within the ligamentum flavum causing either focal or diffuse enlargement can be associated with significant spinal stenosis . 
anterior tibial translation during a maximum quadriceps contraction : is it clinically significant ? quadriceps exercises are used sparingly in the early rehabilitation of acl reconstructions because of concern about prematurely stretching the acl graft . the aim of this study was to determine if a maximum isometric quadriceps contraction significantly translates the tibia anteriorly at 15 degrees , 30 degrees , 45 degrees , 60 degrees , and 75 degrees of flexion . secondly , the role of the acl in knee stability was analyzed by comparing the amount of tibial translation in normal , acl deficient , and reconstructed knees . thirdly , the location in the motion arc where a quadriceps contraction produces anterior tibial translation was determined . anterior tibial translation was measured using an arthrometer ( kt-1000 ) during an 89 n and manual maximum translation applied to the knee at rest . the manual maximum translation test determines the magnitude of anterior tibial translation produced by a high anterior force applied directly to the proximal calf . these translations were compared to the tibial translation intrinsically induced by a quadriceps contraction . testing was performed in normal ( n = 22 ) , acl deficient ( n = 10 ) , and reconstructed ( n = 10 ) knees . anterior tibial translation produced by a maximum quadriceps contraction was measured at 15 degrees , 30 degrees , 45 degrees , 60 degrees , and 75 degrees of flexion . the extension exercise resulted in less anterior tibial displacement than an 89 n drawer and half the translation produced by a manual maximum translation ( p less than 0.001 ) . instrumented laxity testing produced greater anterior translation of the tibia than a maximum isometric quadriceps contraction . anterior tibial translation was the same during maximum isometric knee extension in all tested knees . 
the contribution of the glenohumeral ligaments to anterior stability of the shoulder joint . the purpose of this study was to investigate the ligamentous stabilizing mechanisms preventing anterior instability in the glenohumeral joint . six freshly thawed , unembalmed cadaveric shoulders were dissected , preserving the joint capsule and glenohumeral ligaments , the coracohumeral ligament , and the subscapularis tendon . hall-effect strain transducers were placed on the superior , middle , and inferior glenohumeral ligaments . the humerus and scapula were fixed in a specifically designed mounting apparatus that allowed the glenohumeral joint to be placed in 0 degree , 45 degrees , or 90 degrees of abduction . the mounting apparatus was placed in a model ttc instron universal testing instrument , which applied an external rotation torque to the humerus . strain produced in the three glenohumeral ligaments was recorded on a three-channel x-y chart recorder . at 0 degree of abduction , the superior and middle glenohumeral ligaments developed the most strain . at 45 degrees of abduction , the inferior and middle glenohumeral ligaments developed the most strain , with considerable strain also being developed in the superior glenohumeral ligament . at 90 degrees of abduction , the inferior glenohumeral ligament developed the most strain , with strain also seen in the middle glenohumeral ligament . 
a prospective , randomized study of three surgical techniques for treatment of acute ruptures of the anterior cruciate ligament . treatment of acl tears is controversial . recent reports on nonoperative treatment have shown poor results . results after primary repair have deteriorated with time , leading to augmentation procedures that seem to have improved the results . however , there have been few prospective , randomized studies in this field . our goal was to compare primary repair with a bone-patellar tendon-bone augmentation method and with a new method using the kennedy ligament augmentation device . one hundred fifty patients aged 16 to 50 , all of whom had acute acl tears , were randomized with the closed envelope method to one of three groups treated with open surgical methods . fifty patients were treated with primary repair , 50 patients with patellar tendon augmentation , and 50 patients were augmented with the kennedy ligament augmentation device . all patients were operated on within 10 days of injury . the rehabilitation protocol was identical , consisting of a long leg cast for 2 weeks , followed by a brace with no weight-bearing and limited motion for 6 weeks . the patients were followed prospectively by one surgeon ( le ) using the lysholm functional score , tegner activity level score , clinical evaluation and kt-1000 arthrometer at 6 months , 1 , and 2 years . three patients were lost to followup . there was no age or activity level difference between the groups . sport activities led to 85 % of the injuries , with skiing , soccer , and european handball representing 80 % of injuries . all three groups reduced their activity level the 1st year . the repair group remained at the same level after 2 years . 
postarthroscopy analgesia with bupivacaine . a prospective , randomized , blinded evaluation . the analgesic effect of intraarticular bupivacaine injected at the conclusion of knee arthroscopy done under general anesthesia was investigated in a prospective , randomized , and blinded fashion . pain scores , the use of analgesic medications , crutch use , weight-bearing , activity level , and difficulty sleeping the night after surgery were all unaffected by the use of bupivacaine . the apparent lack of effect is most likely due to rapid clearance from the knee , leaving only a transient , 1 to 2 hours of potential benefit . in this study , the patients were already quite comfortable during this time period due to the routine use of intraoperative narcotics . the preoperative level of knee discomfort was found to be a major determinant of postoperative discomfort . other much less important factors were synovial and chondral shaving , sex of the patient , and experience of the surgeon . 
intestinal permeability in patients with chronic urticaria-angioedema with and without arthralgia . we evaluated the clinical response to oligoallergenic dietary treatment and the intestinal absorption of a protein antigen , cow milk beta-lactoglobulin ( blg ) in 24 patients with chronic urticaria/angioedema syndrome 13 of whom also suffered from joint symptoms . sixteen patients ( 77 % of those with arthralgia ) responded to diet ( rd ) with marked reduction of symptoms ; the others did not respond ( nr ) . ten ( all but one rd with arthralgia ) had increased permeability to blg after oral administration of cow milk . four with high titers of igg to blg showed the highest absorption of blg and the groups with arthralgia showed higher blg levels than those without arthralgia . in all cases , specific ige to cow milk was absent . these data suggest that the symptoms of a subgroup of patients with chronic urticaria , and especially patients with joint complaints that subside with diet , are related to excess intestinal permeability . the measurement of gut permeability to food proteins may be useful to define those who may benefit from dietary restriction . 
lyme disease : recommendations for diagnosis and treatment the incidence and the endemic range of lyme disease in the united states have increased steadily since the disease was originally recognized in lyme , connecticut , in 1975 . because of the varied clinical manifestations of this illness and the use of unstandardized serologic testing methods , diagnosis is often uncertain and treatment outcomes are often difficult to evaluate . the antibiotic regimens that are commonly used in clinical practice have changed rapidly . they show much regional variation with little critical comparison of treatment results . the clinical diagnosis and the literature on the treatment of the various stages of lyme disease are reviewed . the reported data are supplemented with recommendations based on 15 years of clinical experience with this illness . 
mineral balance in infantile cortical hyperostosis : effects of corticosteroids . the effects on mineral metabolism of therapeutic doses of corticosteroids were investigated in infantile cortical hyperostosis ; in four untreated cases the calcium , phosphorus , and magnesium balances were strongly positive . in one severe case , treatment with prednisolone was associated with an alteration to negative calcium and magnesium balance , and faecal losses of calcium were particularly high . this effect persisted for at least three months after the steroids had been discontinued , and during this period there was pronounced retardation of linear growth . six months after the treatment had been stopped mineral balance was again positive and there was rapid ' catch up ' in growth . in infancy , the negative effect of corticosteroids on calcium , phosphorus , and magnesium metabolism may contribute to inhibition of bone growth and steroid stunting . 
persistence of monosodium urate crystals and low-grade inflammation in the synovial fluid of patients with untreated gout . synovial fluid ( sf ) from 74 asymptomatic knees of patients with gout was analyzed . these patients had never been treated with serum uric acid-lowering agents . sf samples were analyzed for the presence of crystals and for cell counts , using undiluted sf directly in a niebauer cell counting chamber . thirty-seven of the aspirated knees had previously been inflamed , and monosodium urate ( msu ) crystals were seen in sf aspirates from 36 of them ( 97 % ) . of the 37 knees that had never been inflamed , only 8 contained msu crystals ( p less than 0.00001 ) . after reaching the joint , msu crystals will persist in the sf as long as the serum uric acid level has not been lowered by appropriate treatment . in this situation , analysis of sf is an excellent diagnostic test for the intercritical gout . the mean cell count in the 44 sf samples that contained msu crystals was 449/mm3 ( 95 % confidence interval 310-589 ) ; the mean cell count in the 30 sf without msu crystals was 64/mm3 ( 95 % confidence interval 34-95 ) ( p less than 0.00002 ) . the sf samples that contained msu crystals also had a higher percentage of polymorphonuclear leukocytes than those without msu crystals ( p less than 0.002 ) . these data suggest that there is a low-grade inflammation present in the knees of patients with msu crystals , the consequences of which should be investigated . 
synovial membrane histology and immunopathology in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis . in vivo effects of antirheumatic drugs . we examined the histologic and immunopathologic features of the synovial membrane of 18 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and 12 patients with osteoarthritis ( oa ) who had undergone total knee arthroplasty . patients were classified into 5 groups according to therapeutic regimen and disease : ra treated with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs ( nsaids ) , ra treated with nsaids and prednisone , ra treated with nsaids and methotrexate ( mtx ) , oa treated with analgesics , and oa treated with nsaids . there were no significant between-group differences in the percentages or the distribution pattern of the infiltrating t cell subsets ( cd4 , cd8 ) , hla-dr , or interleukin-2 receptor-bearing cells . however , inflammatory indices , which included the thickness of the lining cell layer and the density of the mononuclear cell infiltrate , were significantly higher in the ra patients treated with prednisone and those treated with mtx ( p less than 0.05 ) . similarly , fibrosis was markedly reduced in these 2 groups . the ra patients treated with nsaids alone and the 2 groups of patients with oa demonstrated similar profiles . these data suggest that prednisone and mtx may inhibit the development of fibrosis without altering the subsets of the inflammatory cell population . this observation raises the possibility that the action of these 2 drugs may be partly mediated by the suppression of inflammatory mediators that are responsible for fibroblast activation . 
spontaneous degenerative polyarthritis in male new zealand black/kn mice . histopathologic studies and radiographic analysis revealed that male new zealand black/kn ( nzb/kn ) mice develop degenerative polyarthritis in the joints of the forepaw and hindpaw beginning at age 2 months . deposits of autoantibodies were observed on proliferating collagen fibers , nuclei of chondrocytes , and epidermal cells . increases in the frequency of positivity for rheumatoid factor and anti-type ii collagen antibodies and in the level of serum oxidation activity were noted in these mice . the joint disease in male nzb/kn mice was transferable to female nzb/kn mice and male balb/c mice by intraperitoneal injection of spleen cells from the male nzb/kn mice . this animal model of arthritis will be extremely useful for analyzing not only the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis , but also new strategies for its treatment , since nzb/kn mice , unlike mrl/lpr mice , do not develop severe lupus nephritis or lymph-adenopathy , and therefore have a longer survival period . 
down-regulation of adoptive adjuvant-induced arthritis by suppressor factor ( s ) . we recently described a method for inducing immunologic tolerance to trinitrochlorobenzene ( tncb ) , a hapten that generates suppressor cells capable of down-regulating the efferent phase of tnp-specific contact hypersensitivity in rats . peritoneal exudate cells ( pec ) of such tolerized rats , upon being triggered by specific hapten , suppressed contact hypersensitivity to another hapten elicited at the same time . this implied that cells that mediate delayed-type hypersensitivity of any specificity might be down-regulated , provided that the suppressor cells are activated with specific antigen and that the unrelated delayed-type hypersensitivity is elicited in parallel . to rigorously test this possibility , we examined the ability of tnp-specific suppressor lymphoid cell factors to affect cells that mediate adoptively transferable adjuvant-induced arthritis ( aia ) in rats . to induce arthritis , spleen cells from freund 's complete adjuvant-injected rats were stimulated with concanavalin a and administered to naive recipients . prior to adoptive transfer , the cells were exposed for brief intervals to supernatants of lymphoid cells from control and hapten-tolerized rats . supernatants of pec and lymph node cells from hapten-tolerized rats were found to markedly reduce the effectiveness of cells that mediate aia . the hapten-tolerized cells required reexposure to hapten prior to preparation of the supernatants . supernatants of spleen cells from hapten-tolerized rats that had been hapten-painted as well as hapten-triggered and supernatants of lymph node cells and of pec from only hapten-painted or hapten-triggered rats were ineffective in altering the aia . thus , factors from suppressor cells induced toward hapten-coupled self-antigens have been found to adversely affect the function of lymphoid cells that mediate a totally unrelated inflammatory response , namely , aia . the clinical implications of these findings are discussed . 
prevalence of angioid streaks and other ocular complications of paget 's disease of bone . seventy randomly selected patients with paget 's disease of bone were examined for ocular complications . the prevalence of macular degeneration and cataract was 24.3 % . only one patient was found to have angioid streaks . eight patients had peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy . these findings suggest that the prevalence of serious ocular complications of paget 's disease is not as high as previously thought . the significance of peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy requires further evaluation . 
magnetic resonance imaging of the head and spine : effective for the clinician or the patient ? objectives -- to test how the results of magnetic resonance imaging influence clinicians ' diagnoses and management plans for patients with cranial and spinal problems and to assess changes in the quality of life of these patients . design -- survey of patients undergoing cranial and spinal magnetic resonance imaging with questionnaires about diagnoses and intended management plans before and after imaging and quality of life questionnaires at the time of imaging and again four months later . setting -- regional magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy unit . subjects -- 100 consecutive patients referred for cranial imaging in early 1989 ; 100 similar patients referred for spinal imaging . main outcome measures -- changes in clinicians ' leading diagnoses after magnetic resonance imaging and their confidence in these diagnoses ; changes in intended management plans ; assessment of the contribution to the future management of the patient ; changes in patients ' quality of life . results -- magnetic resonance imaging altered the clinicians ' leading diagnoses in 35 of 169 ( 21 % ) cases . the clinicians became more confident about their leading diagnoses in 90 of 167 ( 54 % ) . there was a change in management plan in 113 of 182 ( 62 % ) . the clinicians considered that magnetic resonance imaging made an important contribution to management in 119 of 162 ( 73 % ) patients . overall , the patients ' quality of life was unchanged at the four month assessment . conclusions -- magnetic resonance imaging of patients with cranial and spinal problems influences clinicians ' diagnoses and management plans , but the quality of life of these patients remains unchanged . 
antibody to coxsackie b virus in diagnosing postviral fatigue syndrome objective -- to study the association between coxsackie b virus infection and the postviral fatigue syndrome and to assess the immunological abnormalities associated with the syndrome . design -- case-control study of patients with the postviral fatigue syndrome referred by local general practitioners over one year . setting -- general practitioner referrals in dunbartonshire , scotland . patients -- 254 patients referred with the postviral fatigue syndrome ( exhaustion , myalgia , and other symptoms referable to postviral fatigue syndrome of fairly recent onset -- that is , several months ) and age and sex matched controls obtained from same general practitioner ; 11 patients were rejected because of wrong diagnoses , resolution of symptoms , and refusal to participate , leaving 243 patients and matched controls . main outcome measures -- detailed questionnaire ( patients and controls ) and clinical examination ( patients ) and blind analysis of blood sample at entry and after six months for determination of coxsackie b virus igm and igg antibodies and other variables ( including lymphocyte protein synthesis , lymphocyte subsets , and immune complexes ) . results -- percentage positive rates for coxsackie b virus igm at entry were 24.4 % for patients and 22.6 % for controls and for coxsackie b virus igg 56.2 % and 55.3 % respectively ; there were no significant differences between different categories of patients according to clinical likelihood of the syndrome nor any predictive value in a fourfold rise or fall in the coxsackie b virus igg titre in patients between entry and review at six months . the rates of positive antibody test results in patients and controls showed a strong seasonal variation . of the numerous immunological tests performed , only a few detected significant abnormalities ; in particular the mean value for immune complex concentration was much higher in 35 patients and 35 controls compared with the normal range and mean value for total igm was also raised in 227 patients and 35 controls compared with the normal range . conclusions -- serological tests available for detecting coxsackie b virus antibodies do not help diagnose the postviral fatigue syndrome . percentage positive rates of the antibodies in patients simply reflect the background in the population as probably do the raised concentrations of total igm and immune complexes . 
clinical screening for collagen defects in connective tissue diseases . the defects in type i collagen structure or synthesis that produce all four types of osteogenesis imperfecta ( oi ) and ehlers-danlos syndrome ( eds ) type vii and the defects in type iii collagen structure in eds type iv can be detected by analysis of collagens produced by fibroblastic cells cultured from affected individuals . quantitative defects in synthesis of type i collagen are seen in oi type i and qualitative defects of type i collagen characterize oi type ii , oi type iii , and oi type iv and eds type vii . eds type iv results from qualitative type iii collagen defects . all of the disorders are inherited typically in an autosomal dominant fashion so that recurrence among offspring of normal parents usually results from germline mosaicism for the mutation in one parent . analysis of type i and type iii collagen synthesized by cultured chorionic villus cells is used for prenatal diagnosis of these disorders . 
impaired exercise capacity in adults with moderate scoliosis . we measured lung function and exercise tolerance in 15 adults with moderate kyphoscoliosis ( thoracic curvatures between 25 degrees and 70 degrees , mean + / - sd = 46.93 degrees + / - 14.02 degrees ) . forced vital capacity showed a slight reduction from values predicted from age and sex matched control subjects ( 3.39 + / - 1.06 vs 4.06 + / - 0.82 l , p less than 0.05 ) . however , exercise tolerance was significantly lower than previously reported in healthy adults ( vo2max = 31.60 + / - 9.12 vs 37.07 + / - 4.91 ml/kg/min , p less than 0.05 ) . despite the reduced exercise tolerance , the ratio of maximum tidal volume to vital capacity ( vtmax/vc ) was similar to that observed in healthy adults . the mean dyspnea index ( vemax/mvv ) was also normal at 69.4 + / - 19.0 . hypoxic and hypercapnic ventilatory responses were within predicted normal limits at 0.67 + / - 0.37 l/min -1 fall in sao2-1 and 1.67 + / - 0.92 l/min -1 mm hg pco2 ( -1 ) . we conclude that the impairment of exercise performance found in adults with moderate scoliosis can not be attributed to any important ventilatory limitation , abnormality in lung volume , or impaired chemoreceptor sensitivity . we suggest that the reduced vo2max likely arises from deconditioning and lack of regular aerobic exercise . 
hypercapnic respiratory failure due to l-tryptophan-induced eosinophilic polymyositis . a 24-year-old man presenting with fever , rash , and myalgias subsequently developed hypercapnic respiratory failure and severe limb muscle weakness . muscle biopsy revealed eosinophilic myositis , due to the ingestion of large quantities of l-tryptophan as a dietary supplement . complete recovery occurred with corticosteroid administration . significant involvement of the respiratory muscles can be a predominant feature of this newly described disease entity . 
hypertrophic osteoarthropathy in association with pulmonary tuberculosis . three white male patients with advanced cavitary pulmonary tuberculosis presented with hoa . no other pathology to explain the osteoarthropathy was detected . the osteoarthropathy responded symptomatically to nsai drugs and treatment of tuberculosis but resolved radiologically in only one patient . 
risk factors for disability among u.s. adults with arthritis . this article studies risk factors for physical and social disability among u.s. adults ages 55 + who have arthritis , compared to non-arthritis persons of those ages . the dependent variables refer to difficulties in walking , physical functioning ( motions and strength ) , personal care , and household care . the data set is the supplement on aging ( soa ) ( n = 16,148 ) that accompanied the 1984 national health interview survey . the soa data are cross-sectional ; relationships of risk factors to disability suggest causation but do not directly demonstrate it . logistic regressions show that risk factors are similar for arthritis and non-arthritis people , with one important exception . ( 1 ) the similarities are : for both groups , odds of disability rise with age , diminish with education , and are higher for non-whites and non-married persons . disability rises with number of chronic diseases and impairments , and it is elevated for underweight persons ( body mass index ( bmi ) less than 20 ; further analysis indicates this reflects incomplete control of their severe illness status ) . long duration of arthritis and recent medical care for it are associated with disability . ( 2 ) the exception is : severe overweight ( bmi greater than or equal to 30 ) is a disability risk factor for arthritis people , but not for non-arthritis people . previous research has shown that obesity/overweight is a risk factor for etiology of osteoarthritis ; our analysis now shows its continued importance for disability when the disease is present . 
reconstruction of the severely atrophic edentulous mandible by means of autogenous bone grafts and simultaneous placement of osseointegrated implants . a method of reconstructing the severely atrophic mandible that simultaneously provides additional strength and the ability to house osseointegrated implants is presented . the performance of the procedure from an external approach minimizes the possibility of oral contamination and , therefore , infection . the procedure has been performed on 10 patients , with a longest follow-up of 3 years . a 93 % success rate has been achieved , and bone resorption at the implant sites has thus far been negligible . prosthetic rehabilitation has been done in 9 of the 10 cases ; 3 have been tissue-supported prostheses , and 6 have been completely implant-supported prostheses . 
bone resorption , stability , and soft-tissue changes following large chin advancements . large advancement genioplasties were performed in 10 patients ( mean advancement , 11.7 mm ) by horizontal osteotomy of the inferior border of the mandible , with preservation of a musculoperiosteal pedicle to the advanced genial segment . preoperative , immediate postoperative , and long-term follow-up lateral cephalometric radiographs were retrospectively analyzed to evaluate the osseous and soft-tissue changes of the chin . after a mean follow-up period of 15 months , 76 % of the initial advancement was preserved , representing 24 % osseous resorption . the enveloping soft tissues of the chin followed the bony movement in a ratio of 1:0.88 . horizontal osteotomy of the inferior border of the mandible was a relatively stable procedure when used for large chin advancements . the broadcast possible musculoperiosteal pedicle should remain attached to the advanced genial segment to minimize osseous resorption and to achieve more predictable soft-tissue changes . 
long-term follow-up of the use of nonporous hydroxyapatite for augmentation of the alveolar ridge . particulate hydroxyapatite ( ha ) was used in the augmentation of 18 mandibular and four maxillary ridges in 21 patients whose cases were followed postoperatively for 5 to 7 years . patients were evaluated clinically , radiographically , and through questionnaires . prosthodontic assessment of retention and stability of dentures showed improvement 5 years postoperatively . patients receiving ha rated their dentures favorably using parameters of the cornell medical index . the results of this study show that particulate ha alone can be used as a satisfactory material for augmentation of the alveolar ridge . 
nasopalatine duct cyst : an analysis of 334 cases . the nasopalatine duct cyst ( npdc ) is the most common cyst of nonodontogenic origin in the maxilla . however , the information reported about this lesion consists primarily of small surveys and isolated case reports . the purpose of this retrospective investigation was to gather demographic , clinical , and histologic data on a large series of npdcs , and to compare the findings with those of previous studies . in this study , the overall mean age at diagnosis was 42.5 years , and there was a slight male predilection . the mean radiographic diameter was 17.1 mm , but 75 % of the lesions were 20 mm or less in diameter . symptoms were present in at least 70 % of the cases . only 28 % of the specimens contained respiratory epithelium . there was no correlation between radiographic size , patient 's age , presenting symptoms , or type of epithelium . recurrence was noted in only 2 % of the cases . 
the clinical course of osteoporosis in anorexia nervosa . a longitudinal study of cortical bone mass . women with anorexia nervosa have reduced bone mass and may develop fractures . neither the pathophysiology of this osteoporosis nor its natural history is known . to study the clinical course of osteoporosis , we followed up 27 women with anorexia nervosa for a median of 25 months ( range , 9 to 53 months ) . at study entry , cortical bone density , measured by single-photon absorptiometry of the radial shaft , was low ( mean + / - sd , 0.63 + / - 0.07 g/cm2 ) and inversely related to the duration of amenorrhea ( r = -0.49 ) . during follow-up , most patients gained weight ( n = 19 ) , took calcium supplements ( n = 16 ) , and exercised regularly ( n = 22 ) , but fewer than half reached 80 % or more of ideal body weight ( n = 11 ) , resumed menses ( n = 6 ) , or received estrogen ( n = 4 ) . cortical bone density was stable during follow-up for the group as a whole ; the mean annual change ( + / - sd ) was +0.005 ( + / - .015 ) g/cm2 ( 95 % confidence interval , -0.0009 to +0.0109 ) . there was no significant difference in the mean change in bone density between women who attained 80 % of ideal weight and those who did not or between groups who did or did not regain menses , take estrogen or calcium , or exercise vigorously . four fractures were clinically observed in three women during follow-up . the rate of 0.05 nonspine fractures per person-year ( 95 % confidence interval , 0.02 to 0.13 ) exceeds that of normal women in this age range ( relative risk , 7.1 ; 95 % confidence interval , 3.2 to 18.5 ) . we conclude that reductions in cortical bone density appear not to be rapidly reversed by recovery from anorexia nervosa and that anorectic women may have an increased risk of fracture . 
hydrocephalus : overdrainage by ventricular shunts . a review and recommendations . selected literature review of the clinical course of patients with ventricular shunts for hydrocephalus shows that the effects of cerebrospinal fluid overdrainage are subdural hematoma , craniosynostosis , slit ventricle syndrome , and low intracranial pressure syndrome . these occur sequentially at different age groups , but approximate averages of incidence and time of occurrence after first shunt reveal an overall incidence of 10 % -12 % for at least one of these appearing at 6.5 years after shunting . the basic etiology , diagnosis , and variety of treatment modalities available are reviewed , including the need for shunt closing intracranial pressure control . included is a hydrocephalus program designed to minimize the need for long-term extracranial shunts and to maximize therapeutic intracranial procedures for hydrocephalus . 
papillary carcinoma of thyroid with exuberant nodular fasciitis-like stroma . report of three cases . three examples of an unusual morphologic variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma ( ptc ) are reported . the presence of a prominent stromal component resulted in low-power microscopic appearances resembling fibroadenoma , phyllodes tumor , or fibrocystic disease of the breast in two cases . the carcinomatous component grew in the form of anastomosing narrow tubules , clustered glands , solid sheets with or without squamous differentiation , and/or papillae , and exhibited the typical nuclear features of ptc . the abundant stroma had a nodular fasciitis-like quality and was composed of short fascicles of spindle cells separated by varying amounts of mucoid matrix , collagen , and extravasated red blood cells ; this was interpreted as an exuberant mesenchymal reaction to the carcinoma . the importance of recognizing this variant of ptc is that , when one encounters a fibroproliferative lesion of the thyroid , a diligent search should be made for papillary carcinoma . this variant also must be distinguished from the vastly more aggressive papillary carcinomas with anaplastic transformation and the so-called carcinosarcomas . 
serum enzyme alterations in chronic muscle disease . a biopsy-based diagnostic assessment . the results of interpretation of muscle biopsies were compared retrospectively to activities of serum enzymes and isoenzymes . a total of 137 patients seen at the cleveland clinic foundation in 1986 and 1987 were included in this study . serum enzymes evaluated were ck , ast , ld , and aldolase ( als ) , as well as the percentage ck-mb isoenzyme . the units of ck-mb and the ratios of ck to ast , ld , and als were calculated . descriptive statistics , kruskal-wallis one-way analysis of variance , and stepwise logistic regression were performed . a diagnostic algorithm was constructed using a computer-assisted rule generation program . myopathic diseases yielded a greater mean increase in serum enzyme activity than atrophic diseases . by multivariate stepwise logistic regression , increases in serum ast and ck activity were independently associated with the presence of inflammation in a muscle biopsy specimen . the diagnostic algorithm allowed for the separation of myopathies from atrophies and could identify cases of duchenne 's muscular dystrophy and polymyositis . 
hypercalciuria in parathyroid disorders : effect of dietary sodium control . moderate dietary na restriction ( 80 mmol/d for 7 days ) during constant ca intake can reduce high urinary ca excretion to normal levels in idiopathic hypercalciuria ( ih ) . a similar protocol was used to test its effect in primary hyperparathyroidism ( phpt ) and also in hypoparathyroid subjects ( hopt ) during treatment with dihydrotachysterol ( dht ) . nine subjects with phpt , 10 with hopt , and one with pseudo-hopt were evaluated after na-restricted ( 80 mmol/d ) and na-supplemented ( 200 mmol/d ) diets for 7 days each with dietary ca constant . na restriction resulted in a decrease in mean urinary 24-hour ca excretion in phpt subjects ( 10.6 v 7.6 mmol/d [ 424 v 304 mg ] , p less than 0.0001 ) and in one pseudo-hopt subject , similar to the pattern seen previously in ih subjects . in contrast , na restriction was not accompanied by significant change in ca excretion in hopt . there was no change in serum immunoreactive pth ( ipth ) or 1,25 ( oh ) 2 vitamin d levels in either group when na intake was altered . thus , the presence of parathyroid hormone ( pth ) is necessary for sodium-related alterations in urinary ca to occur . the effect of pth appears to be " permissive " rather than " active . " dietary na restriction may have a role in the management of hypercalciuria in mild phpt cases when parathyroidectomy is contraindicated . 
flexion-extension views in the evaluation of cervical-spine injuries . study objective : to determine the efficacy of flexion-extension ( f/e ) cervical-spine radiographs in detecting acute cervical-spine instability in emergency patients . design : we retrospectively reviewed the charts of 141 consecutive trauma patients who had f/e views performed after a routine cervical-spine series ( three views ) was obtained in the emergency department . interpretations of the routine series were compared with those of the f/e views to determine if additional useful information was provided by the latter . the charts also were reviewed to determine if any variables were associated with an increased use of f/e views , an increased likelihood of these views demonstrating instability , or any neurologic sequelae resulted from these studies . setting : an urban level i adult trauma center . measurements : the interpretations of the routine series were noted to be either normal , abnormal but without demonstrable fracture/dislocation , or demonstrating a fracture/dislocation . the f/e views were categorized as stable , unstable , or uninterpretable . results : cervical-spine instability was demonstrated by f/e views in 11 of the 141 patients ( 8 % ) , four of whom had normal routine cervical-spine films . three of these four patients required surgical stabilization . prolonged neck pain ( more than 24 hours ) , an initially abnormal spine series , and a neurosurgical consult were all associated with an increased use of f/e views . ten of 11 patients with radiographic instability had significant neck pain by history ; the remaining patient was intoxicated . no neurologic sequelae resulted from performing f/e studies . there was one false-negative f/e study , which raises concern about the reliability of this procedure in the ed . conclusion : we believe that a large prospective study is required to determine which patients warrant f/e views . 
incidence of cocaine-associated rhabdomyolysis . study hypothesis : rhabdomyolysis is a common complication of cocaine use , and muscle symptoms fail to predict its development . study population : a prospective , convenience sample of patients presenting to the emergency department of a large inner-city hospital with complaints related to cocaine use were eligible for inclusion . patients were excluded if they had other potential causes of elevated creatine kinase ( ck ) levels or rhabdomyolysis . a control group comprised patients who were not cocaine users and satisfied the exclusion criteria . sixty-eight patients were studied . methods : initial evaluation included determination of the presence of muscle pain or swelling and total ck levels . patients with a ck level of more than 800 u/l had additional tests , including a urine myoglobin , urine drug screen , and serum phosphorus . rhabdomyolysis was defined by a serum ck level of more than 1,000 u/l ( more than fivefold that of normal ) . ck levels were compared by two-tailed student 's t test . muscle symptoms were compared with the development of rhabdomyolysis by fisher 's exact test . results : the ck level in the cocaine group was 931 + / - 1,785 u/l ( mean + / - 1 sd ) . the ck level in the control group was 242 + / - 168 u/l ( p = .028 ) . of the cocaine users , 24 % ( eight of 34 ) had rhabdomyolysis ; one developed multiorgan failure and died . no patient in the control group had a ck level of more than 1,000 u/l . only one cocaine user who developed rhabdomyolysis had muscle symptoms . three cocaine users had muscle symptoms but did not develop rhabdomyolysis . no patient in the control group had muscle symptoms or developed rhabdomyolysis . muscle symptoms did not predict the ck level ( p = .55 ) . conclusion : this study revealed that 24 % of the cocaine users had rhabdomyolysis . many of the cases of rhabdomyolysis were not predictable from history or physical examination , making laboratory evaluation essential . 
application technique of cotrel-dubousset instrumentation for scoliosis deformities . used in over 600 cases , the posterior cotrel-dubousset spinal instrumentation device has become the device of choice . this technique allows the most effective correction for all kinds of spinal deformities . it requires lengthy preoperative planning and is a technically demanding surgical procedure ; however , because of its versatility it can be adapted to most spinal deformities . the cotrel - dubousset technique is a rigid system of immobilization , and , because it does not require any postoperative immobilization , patients are able to resume their normal lives and activities very quickly . 
minor anatomic abnormalities of the hip joint persisting from childhood and their possible relationship to idiopathic osteoarthrosis . a retrospective review was made of roentgenograms from 30 patients with idiopathic osteoarthrosis of the hip . the roentgenograms were taken before the onset or very early in the course of the disease . nine measurements were made on the anteroposterior and cross-table lateral roentgenograms . these were compared to 54 hips from normal patients . twenty-nine of 30 patients had abnormal measurements , with as many as seven in a single individual , when compared to normal patients . there were no abnormalities in the control group . the availability of lateral views allowed an additional dimension to be added to previous studies in the literature . this study lends further support to the biomechanical theory of the etiology of idiopathic osteoarthrosis of the hip . 
radiocolloids in the management of hemophilic arthropathy in children and adolescents . radiocolloids have been used in the treatment of hemophilic arthropathy . fifty-eight joints of 35 patients were injected with 2-5 mci of yttrium-90 silicate under local anesthesia . a preinjection arthrogram was performed to ensure correct placement of the needle . plaster of paris cast immobilization of the joint was used for three days . after a mean follow-up period of seven years ( range , two to 12 years ) , 47 joints were pain free , and 13 joints had not experienced another hemorrhagic episode . the mean hemorrhagic frequency had decreased from four per month to two per year . the radiation risk was far outweighed by the benefits of the procedure . forty-seven of the 58 joints were rated as improved by the patients . the roentgenographic appearance of the joints had changed little . only five complications occurred : three needle-track necroses because of extravasation of the radiocolloid , two severely painful joints immediately after injection , and one massive hemorrhagic episode . this form of treatment is suggested for hemophiliacs who have failed to respond to intensive physical and hematologic therapy , and for those patients who have inhibitors . 
congenital anomalies of the cervical spine . congenital anomalies of the cervical spine are uncommon . the majority of afflicted individuals are asymptomatic or have only mild restriction of neck motion . if symptoms develop , they are usually due to cervical instability or degenerative osteoarthrosis . recent information indicates that patients with upper cervical anomalies such as atlantooccipital fusion , anomalies of the odontoid , or the transverse atlantal ligament have a great propensity to develop early instability and neurologic problems secondary to minor traumatic events . if symptoms occurs in the lower cervical spine , it is usually in adult life and due to degenerative arthritis in the hypermobile articulations adjacent to the area of synostosis . the relatively good prognosis of cervical lesions is overshadowed by the " hidden " or unrecognized associated anomalies . there is a high incidence of significant scoliosis , sprengel 's deformity , renal anomalies , deafness , and neurologic malformations . early recognition and treatment of these problems may be of substantial benefit , sparing the patient further deformity or serious illness . 
osteoarthrosis retards the development of osteoporosis . observation of the coexistence of osteoarthrosis and osteoporosis . the clinical , roentgenographic , and biochemical features of the dorsal and lumbar spine were reviewed in 72 postmenopausal women . nineteen women had both osteoporosis ( vertebral collapse ) and osteoarthrosis . these patients were compared with 26 patients who had only osteoarthrosis of the spine and 27 who had only vertebral collapse . the patients who had both spinal osteoporosis and osteoarthrosis were older , more advanced in menopause , and physically smaller in stature and body weight than the other groups . they also had higher serum parathyroid hormone level , used nonthiazide diuretics more frequently , and had more nulliparity than the other two groups . these patients had osteoarthrosis of the hip to a lesser degree than patients affected by osteoarthrosis alone , and they had fewer fractures of the forearm and other sites than patients with osteoporosis alone . the incidence of femoral neck fractures in both groups , however , was comparable . these results suggest that osteoarthrosis or a related factor might have a protective effect on the progression of osteoporosis . these results confirm earlier observations that postmenopausal osteoporosis and osteoarthrosis are two distinct diseases and not the result of normal aging . 
analysis of 61 cases of vertebral osteomyelitis . sixty-one cases of bacterial vertebral osteomyelitis from july 1969 to july 1979 were analyzed . the ages of the 49 men and 12 women ranged from 21 to 66 years . the portal of entry was hematogenous in 58 cases , gunshot wounds in two cases , and and adjacent retroperitoneal abscess in one case . biopsy was performed in 60 patients . there were 15 complications related to the disease . gram-negative rods were the predominant bacteria isolated . blood culture was positive in 13 of the 26 ( 50 % ) patients tested . eleven of the 13 ( 85 % ) organisms isolated from the blood cultures correlated with organisms recovered from biopsy specimens . eleven of the patients had more than one disk level involved . of the 61 patients , 29 went on to spontaneous fusion , 17 were lost to follow-up study , 11 failed to fuse , three had surgical fusion , and one patient died . recommendations for diagnosis included the collection of blood cultures and radionuclide bone scans . management recommendations included systemic antibiotics for at least three weeks and immobilization with either bed rest or spinal orthoses . surgery was indicated if an abscess was present , neurologic complications occurred , instability became a factor , or the medical treatment failed . 
a test for knee posterolateral rotatory instability . a test for knee posterolateral instability , which is a modification of the standard posterolateral rotatory instability test , is described . in this test , the patient lies supine on the examination table with hips and knees flexed to 90 degrees . the examiner grasps both feet and attempts to maximally externally rotate them . a positive test is indicated by ( 1 ) excessive external rotation of the affected tibia , which is easily recognized since the feet act as pointers and amplify the external rotation , and ( 2 ) a slight posterior sag of the affected tibial tubercle , which is more subtle but still a very recognizable sign . 
knee function after surgical or nonsurgical treatment of acute rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament : a randomized study with a long-term follow-up period . one hundred fifty-six patients with a total rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament ( acl ) were reexamined 41 to 80 months after injury . they were randomized to three treatment groups : ( 1 ) repair and augmentation of the acl with an iliotibial strip , ( 2 ) repair without augmentation , and ( 3 ) nonsurgical acl treatment . associated injuries of menisci and other ligaments were treated in the same way for the three groups . two-thirds of the patients in the nonsurgically treated group complained of instability and 17 % had had a subsequent reconstruction of the acl at the follow-up examination . the group treated with an augmented repair had a less abnormal laxity measured by a laxity-testing device . sixty-three percent returned to competitive sports , as compared with 27 % in the nonsurgical group and 32 % in the only repair group . relative strength of the quadriceps and hamstrings muscles were similar for all groups . the augmented-repair group had better hop tests , reflecting a superior stability , whereas running was not affected by treatment but was correlated with the activity level . 
fractional lengthening of the flexor tendons in clubfoot surgery . massive scarring of the z-lengthened flexor digitorum and flexor hallucis longus is a constant finding in clubfoot surgery . a method of fractional lengthening of the tendons is described . this method has been proven effective in preventing this complication . 
experimental diabetes , insulin treatment , and femoral neck morphology and biomechanics in rats . to investigate the effects of diabetes and insulin treatment on trabecular bone , the morphologic and biomechanical characteristics of the femoral neck in rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes were studied . young sprague-dawley rats were divided into three groups , control , diabetic ( dm ) , and diabetic with insulin ( di ) , and maintained for ten weeks . cantilever-bending tests to failure were conducted on the proximal femur , and fracture-surface cross sections were analyzed . morphologically , the femoral necks in diabetic rats decreased in the relative size of their cortical shell and increased their trabecular core . structurally , the load and the energy at the proportional limit and the total energy in diabetic femoral necks were significantly less than controls . in material properties , the diabetic femoral necks had significantly less stress at the proportional limit . compared to the dm group , the di femoral necks had significantly greater load and energy at the proportional limit and significantly greater total energy . femoral neck mechanical and morphologic properties in diabetic rats were significantly lower than controls , but insulin treatment ameliorated diabetic osteopathy in the rat femoral neck . 
histochemical localization of calcium with potassium pyroantimonate in the articular tissues in calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystal deposition disease . the ultrastructural localization of calcium in the articular cartilage , meniscus , and synovium of patients with calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate ( cppd ) crystal deposition disease was examined by using potassium pyroantimonate . focal areas with deposition of cppd crystals in each tissue showed electron-dense precipitates of the antimony-calcium complex : ( 1 ) in the cytoplasm of hypertrophic chondrocytes around cppd crystals , especially on the margins of intracellular lipid droplets or within electron-dense amorphous material or both ; and ( 2 ) on the margins of lipid droplets and within electron-dense amorphous material in the degenerated matrix surrounding the hypertrophic chondrocytes . the slender rodlike structures consisting of electron-dense precipitates of the antimony-calcium complex , suggestive of the precursor to rodlike cppd crystals , were also observed in the degenerated matrix . these findings suggest that the hypertrophic chondrocytes may contribute to the formation of cppd crystals by intracellular accumulation of calcium and subsequent release of high concentration of calcium into their surrounding matrix . 
a method of assessment of the clubfoot deformity . the literature on clubfeet is inadequate because a common method language for assessing the deformity is lacking . different severities of clubfoot deformity will give different results for a standard procedure : a less severe deformity can be corrected by limited releases , whereas a severe deformity requires radical procedures . this paper presents a language of assessment that has been used for a number of years . the importance of developing a language of assessment to be able to identify the various types of clubfoot deformity is important if the treatment of this condition is to develop within the field of pediatric orthopedics . 
the management of chronic osteomyelitis . chronic osteomyelitis of childhood is heterogeneous but it can be broadly classified into nonspecific or specific groups . children with chronic osteomyelitis because of mycobacteria or mycoses are included within the specific group . the nonspecific group is the larger . it includes chronic osteomyelitis as a sequel to late acute osteomyelitis as well as chronic unifocal and chronic multifocal osteomyelitis . whereas staphylococcus aureus and other pyogenic organisms are commonly cultured from chronic lesions following late acute osteomyelitis , they are less frequently cultured from those with chronic unifocal osteomyelitis and rarely cultured from those with chronic multifocal osteomyelitis . the methods of treatment and the results also differ between these subgroups of nonspecific osteomyelitis . lesions following late acute osteomyelitis are usually cured following surgery and antibiotics . chronic unifocal osteomyelitis is usually cured with antibiotics only or with surgery and antibiotics . in contrast , surgery and antibiotics are largely ineffective in children with chronic multifocal osteomyelitis , but the disease appears to be self-limiting . 
a perspective on recent trends for scoliosis correction . the basic principles for scoliosis surgery learned during the harrington era are still valid today . experience has confirmed the need for careful selection of the vertebrae to be instrumented , the value of anterior release for rigid curves in imparting convertibility of the deformity , and the importance of careful fusion techniques . during the last decade , further development has occurred because of an increased knowledge of the biomechanical needs for the internally instrumented spine and a three-dimensional appreciation of the scoliotic curve . biomechanical advances have centered on an understanding of the load-sharing properties afforded by the multiple spinal purchase sites ( segmental spinal instrumentation ) and the value of two-rod systems linked by couplers . these advances have provided an increased stiffness of the instrumental spine , a reduction in correction loss , improved fatigue properties of the implant , and fewer pseudarthroses . the most important advance of the last decade is an improved awareness of the three-dimensional approach to the scoliotic deformity with the need to preserve or improve sagittal contours . in particular , the importance of the loss of normal thoracic kyphosis or lumbar lordosis has been emphasized . these conceptual gains have led to the development of many new instrument systems to correct deformity . each is associated with advantages , problems , and risks that must be understood to make intelligent choices for treatment . 
recovery from osteopenia in adolescent girls with anorexia nervosa . osteopenia is a frequent complication of anorexia nervosa ( an ) . to determine whether the deficit in bone mineral changes during the course of this illness , we studied 15 adolescent patients prospectively for 12-16 months using dual photon absorptiometry of the spine and whole body . at follow-up , mean weight , height , and body mass index ( bmi ) had increased significantly , although 6 girls had further weight loss or minimal gain ( less than 1.2 kg ) . spontaneous menses occurred in 2 girls , and 3 others were given estrogen replacement . bone mineral density of the lumbar spine did not change significantly ( mean + / - sd , 0.836 + / - 0.137 vs. 0.855 + / - 0.096 g/cm2 ) , while whole body bone mineral density increased ( 0.710 + / - 0.118 vs. 0.773 + / - 0.105 ; p less than 0.05 ) . despite gains in bone mineral , 8 patients had osteopenia of the spine and/or whole body . changes in weight , height , and bmi were significant predictors of change in bone mineral density . increased bone mass occurred with weight gain before return of menses ; conversely , weight loss was associated with further decreases in bone density . in 1 patient who failed to gain weight , estrogen therapy resulted in increased spinal , but not whole body , bone mineral . we also studied a second group of 9 women who had recovered from an during adolescence . all 9 had normal whole body bone mineral for age , but 3 had osteopenia of the lumbar spine . we conclude that osteopenia in adolescents with an reflects bone loss , perhaps combined with decreased bone accretion . weight rehabilitation results in increased bone mineral before the return of menses . estrogen may have an independent effect on bone mass . the persistence of osteopenia after recovery indicates that deficits in bone mineral acquired during adolescence may not be completely reversible . 
levels of disability among u.s. adults with arthritis . this article studies the excess levels of disability experienced by persons with arthritis , compared to persons without the disease . the data set is the supplement on aging ( 1984 national health interview survey ) ; it has information for a national probability sample of community-dwelling persons ages 55 + ( n = 16,148 ) . ( 1 ) arthritis people have more difficulty in physical functions , personal care , and household care than do nonarthritis persons . the excess disability is greatest for physical functions ( walking , reaching , stooping , etc. ) . disabled arthritis people have especially high degrees of difficulty in physical activities that require endurance and strength . ( 2 ) various models are tested for walking , grasping , shopping , and light housework to show how comorbidity propels disability for arthritis people and to show arthritis ' own contribution to disability in the presence of other chronic conditions . difficulties escalate for arthritis people when they have other concurrent conditions . these models affirm that arthritis has a pronounced effect on physical dysfunctions , but these are not readily translated into personal and household care problems . apparently , arthritis people often make successful accommodations so their roles and daily activities are not seriously affected by the disease . 
microheterogeneity of acute phase proteins in the differentiation of polymyalgia rheumatica from polymyositis . we studied an alpha-1-acid glycoprotein ( agp ) and an alpha-1-antichymotrypsin ( acht ) microheterogeneity in sera of patients with polymyalgia rheumatica ( pmr ) , giant cell arteritis ( gca/pmr ) , polymyositis/dermatomyositis ( pm/dm ) and healthy individuals by affinity electrophoresis with concanavalin a ( con-a ) as the ligand . our results are expressed as reactivity coefficients . the mean of agp reactivity coefficients ( ag-rc + / - sd ) in pmr ( 0.92 + / - 0.17 ) and gca/pmr ( 0.91 + / - 0.12 ) were significantly lower compared with the mean ag-rc in patients with pm/dm ( 1.48 + / - 0.52 ) as well as in healthy individuals ( 1.34 + / - 0.9 ) . moreover , an additional microheterogeneous form of agp was noted in patients with pm/dm . in parallel , we also found that the mean of acht reactivity coefficients ( ac-rc + / - sd ) were lower in patients with pmr ( 2.94 + / - 1.24 ) and gca/pmr ( 1.66 + / - 0.16 ) compared with healthy individuals ( 3.92 + / - 1.17 ) . the mean of ac-rc in patients with pm/dm ( 6.74 + / - 4.35 ) was significantly higher than in patients with pmr and gca/pmr as well as in healthy individuals . our results show that the changes in reactivity of agp and acht with con-a are useful diagnostic markers for the differentiation of pmr and gca/pmr from pm/dm . 
hiv associated arthropathy : hiv antigen demonstration in the synovial membrane . light and electron microscopic studies were performed on the synovial membranes of 5 patients with hiv associated arthropathy . an immunoperoxidase technique with the use of monoclonal antibodies against cd4 , cd8 , b and dr lymphocytes , and hiv p24 antigen was also used . mild to moderate nonspecific proliferative changes and increased vascularity of the subsynovial space were seen . electron dense deposits and viral-like particles were not observed . immunohistochemical staining revealed hiv p24 positive staining in cells of the synovial lining layer and in the mononuclear cells of the subsynovial space . cd4 , cd8 , with predominance of cd8 , and b and dr cells were also present . the presence of hiv p24 antigen may be indicative of a role , yet to be defined , in the pathogenesis of hiv associated rheumatic disorders . 
fibromyalgia in human immunodeficiency virus infection . tenderness was assessed by point count and by scored palpation in 51 patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection as well as 51 patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) and 50 patients with psoriatic arthritis ( psa ) . fifteen of 51 ( 29 % ) patients with hiv infection met criteria for fibromyalgia , based on the presence of 10 tender ( of 14 ) " fibrositic " points . similar results were observed among patients with psa ( 24 % ) . the prevalence of fibromyalgia was higher among patients with ra ( 57 % ) . patients with hiv and psa were less tender than patients with ra . fibromyalgia in patients with hiv was significantly associated with myalgia and arthralgia , but not with age , duration of hiv infection , stage of hiv disease , or zidovudine therapy . 
a prospective double blind dummy placebo controlled study comparing triamcinolone hexacetonide injection with oral diclofenac 50 mg tds in patients with rotator cuff tendinitis . a prospective double blind placebo controlled study was carried out to compare the effects of subacromial injection of triamcinolone and oral diclofenac in patients with rotator cuff tendinitis over a 4-week period . both forms of treatment were superior to placebo in reducing pain , improving active abduction and reducing functional limitation . triamcinolone showed the greatest effect in these respects , and was significantly superior to diclofenac when patients showing improvements in all 3 variables together ( responders ) were considered . 
growth promoting peptides in osteoarthritis : insulin , insulin-like growth factor-1 , growth hormone . alterations of cartilage and bone , as seen radiographically , are fundamental features of osteoarthritis ( oa ) . endogenous compounds that regulate bone and cartilage metabolism were quantified by radioimmunoassay in patients with oa and in suitable normotensive controls matched for age , sex , race , height , and weight . levels of 3 growth promoting compounds were abnormal in oa as demonstrated by low levels of insulin-like growth factor-1 ( igf-1 ) and elevated levels of insulin and growth hormone ( gh ) compared to controls . our findings support a role for these peptides in the pathophysiology of oa . 
septic arthritis due to group c streptococcus : report and review of the literature . a case of polyarticular septic arthritis due to lancefield group c streptococcus is described and the clinical details of 9 reported cases of septic arthritis due to group c streptococcus reviewed . several features of the presentation and course of these patients , including polyarticular involvement ( 4/10 ) , bacteremia ( 5/10 ) , clinically important dysfunction in other systems ( 4/10 patients : cardiac , 3 ; cns , 2 ; pneumonia , 1 ; gastrointestinal , 1 ) , fatal outcome ( 3/10 patients , 2 during the course of active infection ) and poor functional outcome in affected joints ( 4/7 surviving patients ) , serve to place group c streptococcus septic arthritis as a syndrome distinct from that usually expected with streptococcal septic arthritis . specific features of the bacteriology of group c streptococcus are reviewed ( including confusion with group a streptococcus when analyzed using nonserologic methods , occasional zoonotic source , and frequency of tolerance to penicillin ) in order to emphasize the importance of both the specific identification of this particular streptococcal strain and the initiation of aggressive antibiotic therapy when group c streptococcus is identified as the causative agent in a case of septic arthritis . 
septic olecranon bursitis caused by neisseria sicca . a man with rheumatoid arthritis developed a septic olecranon bursitis due to neisseria sicca . this case confirms the potential pathogenicity of neisseria sicca and emphasizes that positive cultures for this organism should not be readily dismissed . 
recurrent calcific periarthritis , erosive osteoarthritis and hypophosphatasia : a family study . we describe a mother and 2 daughters with familial recurrent calcific periarthritis in a family with an inherited tendency to develop generalized osteoarthritis ( oa ) . low levels of serum alkaline phosphatase were found in 1 of the daughters while the mother developed erosive oa in later life . hla typing was noncontributory . however , the 3 individuals with periarthritis possessed blood group a + , while the 6 unaffected family members were o + . the experience of this family adds weight to the case that recurrent calcific periarthritis may be due to an inherited abnormality of alkaline phosphatase production and suggest that this may also be responsible for the recently observed association of calcific periarthritis and erosive oa . 
magnetic resonance imaging in the preoperative evaluation of cervical radiculopathy . forty patients with cervical radiculopathy were examined preoperatively with magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . mri was used alone in 27 ( 68 % ) of the 40 patients ; the remainder also had computed tomography in conjunction with myelography . the primary criterion on mri for a clinically significant lesion was asymmetrical narrowing of the subarachnoid space in the region of the nerve root . surgical confirmation of the abnormality was obtained in all 40 cases . the operative findings were a herniated nucleus pulposus ( 32 of 40 patients ) , spondylosis ( 2 of 40 patients ) , or a combination of the two ( 6 of 40 patients ) . mri identified a surgical lesion ( herniated nucleus pulposus , spondylosis , or both ) in 37 of the 40 ( 92 % ) patients . we think mri is the only preoperative imaging examination necessary in most cases of cervical radiculopathy . 
asymptomatic versus symptomatic herniated thoracic discs : their frequency and characteristics as detected by computed tomography after myelography . we retrospectively reviewed the myelograms of 433 patients and identified those who had no symptoms or signs referable to the thoracic cord , roots , or nerves . by post-myelography computed tomographic scan criteria , our frequency of asymptomatic thoracic herniated discs ( athds ) was calculated . post-myelography computed tomographic scans of 68 athds were analyzed . their imaging characteristics were compared with our own series of 5 symptomatic thoracic herniated discs and symptomatic thoracic herniated discs in the literature . we were unable to identify any imaging features that could reliably classify a disc as an athd or a symptomatic thoracic herniated disc . our results call into question the propriety of prophylactic surgery for athds , even when the lesions are radiographically impressive . 
spinal charcot arthropathy . charcot joints of the spine are well-documented clinical entities most commonly associated with tabes dorsalis . spinal neuropathic joints , however , may be produced by other disease processes including syringomyelia . in this review , the authors discuss the cause and treatment of spinal charcot arthropathy with emphasis on surgical therapy and results . 
pott 's puffy tumor : a complication of frontal sinusitis . in children sinusitis is a frequent complication of upper respiratory infections but an infrequently considered diagnosis . although most sinus infections are resolved without complications , when complications do occur they can be serious or life threatening . the most common ones occur in the orbit , but cns extension is not infrequent . osteomyelitis and resulting subperiosteal abscess of the frontal bone -- the so-called pott 's puffy tumor -- is a less common , and perhaps less frequently recognized , serious complication of frontal sinusitis . this paper describes two patients with subperiosteal abscess resulting from frontal sinusitis , one with cns and orbital extension . a brief literature review is presented , and presentation , diagnosis , and treatment are discussed . 
free-tissue transfers for limb salvage utilizing in situ saphenous vein bypass conduit as the inflow . using vein grafts to bypass sclerotic and occluded arterial segments is a well-established technique in vascular surgery . for infrapopliteal bypass , autogenous veins have better patency rates than synthetic grafts . although not resolved , in situ bypasses seem to be better than reversed bypasses , especially for " far away " segments . although the etiology is not understood , it is a well-known clinical finding that sclerosis affects arteries more than the veins and , as a whole , is more advanced in lower extremities compared with the trunk and upper extremities . our experience with eight patients in whom critical soft-tissue defects were covered with free-tissue transfers in severely compromised lower extremities utilizing the in situ saphenous vein bypass as the inflow is presented . simultaneous bypass and free-tissue transfers were performed in seven and delayed free-tissue transfer was done in one . follow-up ranged from 6 months to 3 years . to date , two patients underwent amputations . five patients are able to maintain bipedal ambulation . one patient is wheelchair-bound with intact lower extremities . in well-selected patients , this procedure may offer an alternative treatment to amputation . however , because of the complexity of these combined procedures , we strongly urge careful patient selection . 
composite reconstruction for chest wall and scalp using multiple ribs-latissimus dorsi osteomyocutaneous flaps as pedicled and free flaps . a composite flap is presented based on the latissimus dorsi myocutaneous unit together with the underlying ninth to eleventh ribs . three patients are presented . in two , a full-thickness chest-wall defect was present . in one , a full-thickness scalp and cranial defect was present . use of the composite osteomyocutaneous latissimus dorsi free flap as a pedicled flap in two patients and as a free flap in one patient resulted in successful definitive reconstruction in all with no complications . this procedure necessitates no transplantation of soft tissue prior to bone grafting to maintain local vascularity , so the simultaneous one-stage reconstruction of an osseous-soft-tissue defect becomes possible easily . 
radiographic manifestations of congenital anomalies of the skull . congenital anomalies of the pediatric skull are caused by a diverse group of disorders . for the purposes of this discussion , these entities can be classified according to the radiographic appearance of the skull , which may be similar in a variety of different diseases . enlarged parietal foramina , sinus pericranii , aplasia cutis congenita , anterior fontanelle dermoid , cephaloceles , and craniolacunia are all examples of loceles , and craniolacunia are all examples of calvarial defects . although there are numerous causes for wormian bones ( table 1 ) , oi , cleidocranial dysplasia , congenital hypothyroidism , and hypophosphatasia are disorders that are commonly associated with defective ossification and the appearance of wormian bones . osteopetrosis is an important example of rare bony dysplasias that cause sclerosis and hyperostosis of the skull . a partial list of other disorders causing similar radiographic findings is found in table 2 . craniosynostosis results in an abnormality of skull shape . the suture ( s ) involved may be predicted by the deformed calvarial configuration . knowledge of the growth and development of the skull and an understanding of the varied causes of congenital skull anomalies can enable the radiologist to provide the diagnosis or an informed differential diagnosis when confronted with a specific radiographic finding . 
radiographic manifestations of anomalies of the limbs . limb anomalies and their commonly associated organ malformations are increasingly recognized in fetal life because of the use of high resolution real-time sonography . in most instances plain radiography establishes the diagnosis of limb anomalies shortly after birth . in some neonates the diagnosis is tentative until full skeletal maturity is attained . when evaluation of the soft tissues and unmineralized cartilage or ossification center is a prerequisite to early definitive therapy , computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are the procedures of choice . 
mild spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ( namaqualand type ) : genetic linkage to the type ii collagen gene col2a1 . namaqualand spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia ( nsed ) is a mild autosomal dominant form of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia in which changes are maximal in the femoral capital epiphyses and the vertebral bodies . the condition is present in a large multigeneration south african family , and it is clinically important by virtue of severe progressive degenerative osteoarthropathy of the hip joint , which frequently necessitates prosthetic joint replacement in adulthood . linkage studies using molecular markers have shown that the loci for the nsed and type ii collagen genes are linked ( lod score 7.98 at a recombination fraction of .00 ) . 
carcinosarcoma of the lung with hypertrophic pulmonary osteoarthropathy . carcinosarcoma of the lung is a rare malignancy . endobronchial and parenchymal variants are classically described . clinicopathological features are often related to anatomical location , as is the case for most lung neoplasms . this case report details the surgical management of a carcinosarcoma in a patient seen with pulmonary osteoarthropathy . 
quantitative gait analysis in unilateral and bilateral total hip replacements . by qualitative and quantitative analysis of gait we evaluated the outcomes in 41 patients after total hip arthroplasty for degenerative arthritis . patients with unilateral and bilateral degenerative hip disease were evaluated in an effort to characterize preoperative and postoperative gait characteristics . patients were evaluated using a subjective hip-rating scale and a gait-evaluation mat . data were compared with those obtained from a control group of 91 patients . all patients showed a marked improvement in both subjective ratings and measured quantitative gait parameters . patients with unilateral hip disease improved to a greater extent than those with bilateral disease after arthroplasty . we have concluded that total hip arthroplasty can greatly improve the gait characteristics of patients with degenerative arthritis , and that this improvement can be quantified , documented , and followed by using a system of gait evaluation . 
indomethacin inhibition of middle ear bone resorption . localized osteoclastic bone resorption is responsible for the pathological changes within the middle and inner ear , which result in hearing loss and vertigo in chronic otitis media and otosclerosis . the local control of osteoclastic bone resorption is incompletely understood . various small , locally active molecules , cytokines , have been shown to affect resorptive processes . additionally , prostaglandins and their inhibitors have been shown to modulate the resorptive process in a number of in vitro studies . in this study , indomethacin , a cyclooxygenase inhibitor , was tested in a model of localized bone resorption , the pressurized gerbil bulla . after the experimental period , indomethacin was found to inhibit the number of osteoclasts and the resorptive area on the inner surface of the bulla . therefore , it is likely that endogenous cyclooxygenase metabolites are intermediates in the sequence of cellular events , which results in localized bone resorption as in some systemic models . 
muscle performance , voluntary activation , twitch properties and perceived effort in normal subjects and patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome . the decrease in maximal force-generating capacity , the degree of central activation of the muscle , and the subjective perception of effort were measured during prolonged submaximal isometric exercise in 12 male patients suffering from the ' chronic fatigue syndrome ' and 13 naive , healthy male subjects . maximal voluntary isometric torque generated by the elbow flexors was measured before , and at 5 min intervals during an endurance sequence of 45 min of repetitive isometric contractions ( 6 s duration , 4 s rest interval ) producing 30 % of the initial maximal voluntary torque . electrical stimuli were also delivered to the elbow flexors to measure the contractile force in the intervals between voluntary contractions . the degree of central motor activation during maximal voluntary contractions was assessed using a sensitive method of twitch interpolation . in addition , the perceived effort required to achieve the target submaximal contractions was recorded using a standardized self-report scale . a high degree of central activation was achieved in maximal contractions during the endurance sequence both in the patients ( mean of maximal force 93.6 % ; sd 7.8 % ) , and in the control subjects ( mean 90.9 % ; sd 9.5 % ) . the relative torque produced by either voluntary or electrically stimulated contractions was not significantly different between patients and control subjects throughout the test . there was no significant difference in the perceived exertion between the patients and control subjects . these findings support the concept that neither poor motivation , nor muscle contractile failure is important in the pathogenesis of ' fatigue ' in patients with the chronic fatigue syndrome . 
variable phosphate-mediated regulation of vitamin d metabolism in the murine hypophosphatemic rachitic/osteomalacic disorders . the familial hypophosphatemic ( vitamin d-resistant ) disorders are a variety of genetic and acquired syndromes that exhibit unexpected biochemical heterogeneity , manifest as variably abnormal or apparently normal regulation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d [ 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d ] production . recently , we observed that hyp and gy mice , murine homologs of x-linked hypophosphatemic rickets , exhibit similarly disparate regulation of vitamin d metabolism . while gy mice under basal conditions maintain an appropriate elevation ( relative to hypophosphatemia ) of renal 25-hydroxyvitamin d ( 25ohd ) -1 alpha-hydroxylase , hyp mice manifest only normal , not increased , enzyme activity . whether such diversity results from maintenance of phosphate ( p ) - regulated 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d production in gy mice and loss of this function in hyp mice or from other variations remains unknown . therefore , we examined the integrity of p-regulated enzyme activity in the gy and hyp mice by testing the effects of enzyme inhibition and alteration of the serum phosphorus concentration on 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d production . initially , we discovered that inhibition of renal 25ohd-1 alpha-hydroxylase suppressed enzyme function in hyp mice , but did not prevent expression of p-mediated activity in gy mice . in this regard , while administration of a high calcium diet or 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d ( 0.4 ng/h , sc , for 48 h ) resulted in a comparable inhibition of enzyme activity in hyp ( 5.9 + / - 0.5 vs. 2.8 + / - 0.7 fmol/mg . min ) and normal mice ( 4.4 + / - 0.6 vs. 2.0 + / - 0.2 fmol/mg . min ) , similar treatment did not effect complete inhibition of 25ohd-1 alpha-hydroxylase in gy ( 10.3 + / - 0.6 vs. 4.9 + / - 0.3 fmol/mg . min ) or p-depleted mice ( 10.2 + / - 0.5 vs. 5.1 + / - 0.4 fmol/mg . min ) . in accord with the apparent persistence of p-mediated stimulation of enzyme function in gy mice , dietary p repletion in this mutant resulted in a serum phosphorus concentration similar to that of normal mice and decreased enzyme activity ( 4.0 + / - 0.8 fmol/mg . min ) to a level no different from that expressed in controls ( 3.4 + / - 0.3 fmol/mg . min ) . however , in the absence of apparent p-mediated stimulation of enzyme activity , identical treatment of hyp mice increased the serum phosphorus level comparably , but paradoxically enhanced 25ohd-1 alpha-hydroxylase ( 3.1 + / - 0.4 vs. 11.7 + / - 2.0 fmol/mg . min ) . collectively , these data indicate that enhanced renal 25ohd-1 alpha-hydroxylase expressed in gy mice and probably in related human diseases results from normally maintained p regulation of enzyme activity , an action absent or mutated in the genetically distinct hyp mouse . 
differential regulation of insulin-like growth factor-i ( igf-i ) and igf-ii release from cultured neonatal mouse calvaria by parathyroid hormone , transforming growth factor-beta , and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 . in a previous study we found that pth stimulated bone resorption and release of insulin-like growth factor-i ( igf-i ) and igf-ii from cultured neonatal mouse calvaria . since igf-i and igf-ii stimulate osteoblast proliferation and collagen synthesis , these results suggested that increased release of igfs during resorption could mediate in part coupling of bone formation to bone resorption . in the present study two other osteolytic agents , transforming growth factor-beta ( tgf beta ) and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [ 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 were examined for effects on igf release from neonatal mouse calvaria . like pth , tgf beta stimulated resorption and increased release of igf-i and igf-ii . 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 , however , stimulated resorption and igf-ii release comparable to pth , but inhibited release of igf-i . 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 ( 0.1-100 nm ) inhibited basal release of igf-i , and 10 nm 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 inhibited release of igf-i induced by pth or tgf beta . the effects of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 were specific to this vitamin d metabolite and did not occur with 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 or 24,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 at the same concentration . calcitonin ( 50 mu/ml ) decreased 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 stimulation of resorption , but did not affect 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 stimulation of igf-ii release and inhibition of igf-i release . this evidence that effects of 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 on release of the igfs were independent of bone resorption supports the conclusion that 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 modulated the production and secretion of igf-i and igf-ii in calvarial cells . the results of this and the previous study suggest that pth , tgf beta , and 1,25 - ( oh ) 2d3 differentially regulate mouse calvarial cell igf-i and igf-ii production . 
cyclosporin-a in vitro decreases bone resorption , osteoclast formation , and the fusion of cells of the monocyte-macrophage lineage . we studied the in vitro effect of cyclosporin-a ( cya ) on bone resorption using a fetal rat long bone-resorbing assay . cya inhibited both pth-stimulated and unstimulated bone resorption . the inhibitory effect of cya on basal resorption was dose dependent , and it was more pronounced during the second period ( less than or equal to 0.1 microgram/ml ) of culture ( days 5-7 ) than during the first period ( days 2-4 ) . a cytotoxic effect was ruled out by the absence of decrease in [ 3h ] thymidine incorporation into bones up to a concentration of 5 micrograms/ml cya . histomorphometry performed after 4 and 7 days of culture showed that cya ( 1 microgram/ml ) decreased the number of osteoclasts per bone section after 7 days of culture ( 23.5 + / - 4.0 vs. 41.7 + / - 2.9 osteoclasts/bone section ; p less than 0.05 ) , but not after 4 days ( 25.6 + / - 3.3 vs. 23.0 + / - 2.5 ) . these data suggested an effect of cya on osteoclastic differentiation rather than on the function of mature osteoclasts . we further assessed the mechanisms of the inhibitory effect of cya on osteoclastic differentiation in order to determine 1 ) the level of this action ( proliferation and/or fusion of osteoclast precursors ) , and 2 ) if this action is direct or indirect . autoradiographic studies were performed on bone sections after incubation of bones with [ 3h ] thymidine for the last 48 h of culture . cya decreased slightly but significantly the percentage of labeled nuclei per osteoclast and the number of osteoclasts containing at least one labeled nucleus ( 20.2 + / - 0.7 vs. 33.2 + / - 3.5 ; p less than 0.02 ) . moreover the number of nuclei per osteoclast was decreased after 7 days in cya-treated bones ( 2.4 + / - 0.05 vs. 3.0 + / - 0.1 ; p less than 0.02 ) . taken together these results demonstrate that cya slightly decreased the proliferation of osteoclast precursors , but markedly decreased their fusion . similar effects were observed in cultures of rat marrow macrophages . cya ( 1 microgram/ml ) inhibited the fusion of macrophages into multinucleated cells elicited by 1 nm 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 , but had only a slight effect on the proliferation of these cells , as assessed by autoradiography . cya also inhibited the formation of multinucleated cells and the fusion index in long term cultures of human cord blood monocytes , a cellular model for osteoclastic differentiation . by contrast , cya had no effect on the formation of myotubes by fusion of cultured mononucleated rat myoblasts . ( abstract truncated at 400 words ) . 
recurrent nonsense mutations in the growth hormone receptor from patients with laron dwarfism . in addition to its classical effects on growth , growth hormone ( gh ) has been shown to have a number of other actions , all of which are initiated by an interaction with specific high affinity receptors present in a variety of tissues . purification of a rabbit liver protein via its ability to bind gh has allowed the isolation of a cdna encoding a putative human growth hormone receptor that belongs to a new class of transmembrane receptors . we have previously shown that this putative growth hormone receptor gene is genetically linked to laron dwarfism , a rare autosomal recessive syndrome caused by target resistance to gh . nevertheless , the inability to express the corresponding full-length coding sequence and the lack of a test for growth-promoting function have hampered a direct confirmation of its role in growth . we have now identified three nonsense mutations within this growth hormone receptor gene , lying at positions corresponding to the amino terminal extremity and causing a truncation of the molecule , thereby deleting a large portion of both the gh binding domain and the full transmembrane and intracellular domains . three independent patients with laron dwarfism born of consanguineous parents were homozygous for these defects . two defects were identical and consisted of a cg to tg transition . not only do these results confirm the growth-promoting activity of this receptor but they also suggest that cpg doublets may represent hot spots for mutations in the growth hormone receptor gene that are responsible for hereditary dwarfism . 
transforming growth factor beta 1 suppresses acute and chronic arthritis in experimental animals . systemic administration of the cytokine , tgf beta 1 , profoundly antagonized the development of polyarthritis in susceptible rats . tgf beta 1 administration ( 1 or 5 micrograms/animal ) , initiated one day before an arthritogenic dose of streptococcal cell wall ( scw ) fragments , virtually eliminated the joint swelling and distortion typically observed during both the acute phase ( articular index , ai = 2.5 vs. 11 ; p less than 0.025 ) and the chronic phase ( ai = 0 vs. 12.5 ) of the disease . moreover , tgf beta 1 suppressed the evolution of arthritis even when administration was begun after the acute phase of the disease . histopathological examination of the joint revealed the systemic tgf beta 1 treatment greatly reduced inflammatory cell infiltration , pannus formation , and joint erosion . consistent with the inhibition of inflammatory cell recruitment into the synovium , tgf beta 1 reversed the leukocytosis associated with the chronic phase of the arthritis . control animals subjected to the same tgf beta 1 dosing regimen displayed no discernable immunosuppressive or toxic effects even after 4 wk of treatment . these observations not only provide insight into the immunoregulatory effects of tgf beta , but also implicate this cytokine as a potentially important therapeutic agent . 
unusual presentation of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid . an unusual case of squamous cell carcinoma of the middle ear and mastoid in which syncope was a major presenting feature is reported . no such case has been reported in the literature . a possible explanation is offered . 
cauda equina syndrome associated with multiple lumbar arachnoid cysts in ankylosing spondylitis : improvement following surgical therapy . a case of cauda equina syndrome with multiple lumbar arachnoid cysts complicating ankylosing spondylitis ( as ) is described . the value of computerised tomography ( ct ) and magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) as a non-invasive means of establishing the diagnosis is emphasised . in contrast to previously reported cases the patient showed neurological improvement following surgical therapy . surgery may be indicated in some patients , particularly when there is nerve root compression by the arachnoid cysts and when the patient is seen early before irreversible damage to the cauda equina has occurred . 
characteristics of respondents and nonrespondents in a prospective study of osteoporosis . during 1981-1982 , a cohort of elderly japanese americans living in hawaii was recruited for an epidemiologic study of osteoporosis . the male subjects were simultaneously being examined for an epidemiologic study of heart disease . baseline data collected from both the men and women at a previous heart disease examination were used to compare responders vs nonresponders . the target population for the osteoporosis study consisted of 1685 men and 1594 women . of these , 1379 men ( 81.8 % ) and 1105 women ( 72.0 % ) participated in the initial osteoporosis examination . for each sex , nonrespondents were older and had higher systolic blood pressure levels than did the respondents . male nonresponders had a higher stroke prevalence and more frequent recent use of vasodilator medicine . female nonresponders had a less frequent history of having ever taken female hormones than did the responders . the responders and nonresponders were reasonably similar in other respects , as indicated by the comparison of more than 40 other variables . this suggests that nonresponse bias is probably not a major influence in exposure-disease associations in this osteoporosis cohort . we believe this is the first published report dealing with nonresponse characteristics in a cohort study of osteoporosis . 
depletion of muscle mitochondrial dna in aids patients with zidovudine-induced myopathy . long-term zidovudine therapy in patients with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) infection can cause a destructive mitochondrial myopathy with histological features of ragged-red fibres ( rrf ) and proliferation of abnormal mitochondria . in 9 zidovudine-treated patients with this myopathy we found severely reduced amounts ( up to 78 % reduction vs normal adult controls ) of mitochondrial dna ( mtdna ) in muscle biopsy specimens by means of southern blotting . in 2 hiv-positive patients who had not received zidovudine , muscle mtdna content did not differ from that in the 4 controls . depletion of mtdna seems to be reversible , since 1 patient showed a substantial reduction in rrf and a concomitant pronounced increase in muscle mtdna content after zidovudine therapy was discontinued . depletion of muscle mtdna is probably due to zidovudine-induced inhibition of mtdna replication by dna polymerase gamma and is not a secondary effect of hiv infection . 
intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis : a combined institutional review . intracranial complications of paranasal sinusitis constitute true surgical and medical emergencies . the charts of all patients ( n = 649 ) admitted for acute or chronic sinusitis to the university of minnesota hospital and to the university of michigan medical center during a 13-year period ( 1975 to 1988 ) were retrospectively reviewed to determine the incidence of complications . the clinical presentation , bacteriology , involved sinuses , influencing host factors , white blood cell count on presentation , length of hospitalization , and postinterventional complications are presented . twenty-four patients with intracranial complications from paranasal sinusitis are studied for an incidence of 3.7 % . aggressive medical and semi-emergent surgical intervention are required to prevent excessive morbidity and/or mortality . intracranial complications included subdural empyema , frontal lobe abscesses , intrahemispheric abscesses , cavernous and superior sagittal sinus thrombosis , and osteomyelitis . 
chronic musculoskeletal pain and depressive symptoms in the general population . an analysis of the 1st national health and nutrition examination survey data . chronic pain and depression frequently occur together . a selection bias afflicts all hospital clinic and family practice populations in which this relationship has been examined . we report here some of the results from civilian populations outside institutions , examined in the united states in national surveys . the findings are based upon the recollection of individuals with respect to the period of 12 months prior to interview and upon the occurrence of depression in the previous week as indicated by the answers to the depression scale of the centre for epidemiologic studies ( ces-d ) . they indicate that 14.4 % of the united states population between the ages of 25-74 suffer from definite chronic pain related to the joints and musculoskeletal system . another 7.4 % have some pain of uncertain duration . eighty-three percent of the definite pain group received treatment . chronic pain subjects scored significantly higher than normals on the ces-d ( 10.68 + / - s.e.m. 0.76 vs. 8.05 + / - 0.23 , p less than 0.01 ) with subjects with pain of uncertain duration scoring similar to the definite chronic pain population ( 11.13 + / - 0.76 ) . using a high cut-off score for depression . 18 % of the population with chronic pain were found to have depression . this is in contrast to 8 % of the population who did not have chronic pain . 
codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in longer-term treatment of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip . a randomised , double-blind , multi-centre study . this randomized , double-blind , multi-centre study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy and safety of treatment for 4 weeks with codeine plus paracetamol versus paracetamol in relieving chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip . a total of 158 outclinic patients entered the study . eighty-three patients ( mean age 66 years ) were treated with codeine 60 mg plus paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily , and 75 patients ( mean age 67 years ) with paracetamol 1 g 3 times daily . ibuprofen 400 mg was prescribed as rescue medication . due to an unexpected high rate of adverse drug reactions , the study was closed before the planned 400 patients had entered . over weeks 1-4 , 87 % , 64 % , 61 % and 52 % of patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group , and 38 % , 31 % , 22 % and 29 % of patients in the paracetamol group had one or more adverse drug reactions . significantly more patients in the codeine plus paracetamol group had adverse drug reactions in each of the 4 weeks . nausea , dizziness , vomiting and constipation were predominant adverse reactions in the codeine plus paracetamol group . during the first week of treatment , 30 patients ( 36 % ) in the codeine plus paracetamol group and 9 ( 12 % ) in the paracetamol group dropped out . as evaluated from patients completing the first week of treatment , the pain intensity during that week compared to their baseline pain was significantly lower in the codeine plus paracetamol group than in the paracetamol group . moreover , during the first week the paracetamol group received rescue medicine significantly more frequently . in conclusion , when evaluated after 7 days of treatment , the daily addition of codeine 180 mg to paracetamol 3 g significantly reduced the intensity of chronic pain due to osteoarthritis of the hip joint . however , several adverse drug reactions , mainly of the gastrointestinal tract , and the larger number of patients withdrawing from treatment means that the addition of such doses of codeine can not be recommended for longer-term treatment of chronic pain in elderly patients . 
nursing management of the adolescent with idiopathic scoliosis . management of the adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patient has many intricate considerations . whether the patient is braced or surgery is recommended , there is a lot of teaching , assessing , and compassion when dealing with adolescents whose biggest concern is being like their peers . it is important to allow as much independence in decision making as possible , whether it be about bracing or surgical intervention , as long as they clearly understand the consequences . newer , better surgical instruments , anesthesia , nursing care , and postoperative mobility all have changed the management of the operative scoliosis patient significantly . nursing assessment of neurologic , respiratory , function , emotional , and developmental needs of the adolescent patient , however , have not changed . if we , as nurses , understand the rationale for assessments , treatments , and restrictions , we can teach our patients and their families . 
diagnosis and treatment of shoulder injuries in the athlete . the goal of the treatment team dealing with patients who have sports-related shoulder injuries is to return them to their previous activity . there is no substitute for knowledge of anatomy , diagnosis modalities , or current treatments . realistically , some of the athletes are not able to return to the level of competition they performed originally . for those patients , recommendations and suggestions for alternatives based on a sound knowledge of arthroscopic principles need to be considered . one of the greatest roles for the nurse treating these patients may be the temporary loan of her shoulder for them to lean on . 
the foot and footwear . in the field of sports medicine we see increasing numbers of foot - and leg-related injuries that could have been avoided , either totally or in part , had the individual chosen the proper footwear . there is no such thing as the ideal shoe for all types of feet and all terrains , however . when an athlete has a chronic problem that does not respond to properly fitted shoes , a physician consultation should be considered . 
that old hip . the osteoporosis process . osteoporosis is a major health concern that will contribute to an increasing number of hip fractures as the population ages . researchers are continuing to evaluate the role that decreased level of estrogen at menopause and prolonged calcium insufficiency play in the development of osteoporosis . in addition , many health care recommendations are aimed at maximizing peak bone mass and preventing bone loss to decrease the chance of hip fracture . new studies are evaluating the efficacy of experimental medications to rebuild bone mass once osteoporosis has developed . current prevention guidelines include adequate calcium and vitamin d intake and moderate exercise . at menopause , estrogen replacement therapy is recommended for those younger than 50 years or considered at high risk for developing osteoporosis . all people are encouraged to decrease the risk of fracture by evaluating their home environment for hazards that might contribute to falls . nursing needs to develop new strategies and interventions to educate the public about osteoporosis , improve the quality of life for persons with osteoporosis , and decrease the osteoporotic hip fracture mortality rate . will it rise to the challenge ? . 
spinal stenosis . when arthritis is more than arthritis ! spinal stenosis is the result of disc degeneration and narrowing accompanied by facet joint changes culminating in nerve root entrapment . symptoms of back and leg pain appear gradually usually over a period of years and slowly worsen . patients are usually in their 50s or older . most patients are treated initially with nonoperative measures concentrating on pain relief and maintenance of activity . if the symptoms worsen , surgical intervention to relieve pain by decompressing the affected nerve roots is appropriate . some patients with instability require a fusion . most patients are satisfied with the results of surgery in relieving preoperative leg pain . pain relief is often dramatic , allowing most patients to return to normal activity . elderly patients tolerate this procedure surprisingly well . old age alone should not be a contra-indication for this surgery . therefore , the elderly should not be denied the benefits of surgical decompression . nursing interventions can help these patients learn about spinal stenosis and assist them in pursuing appropriate treatment resulting in improved quality of living . 
charcot 's disease in diabetic patients . correct diagnosis can prevent progressive deformity . although charcot 's disease and its association with diabetes have been described many times in the literature , it is still often misdiagnosed and incorrectly treated as osteomyelitis , arthritis , or gout . the best safeguard is a high index of suspicion . a warm , swollen foot in a diabetic patient with long-standing neuropathy without local or systemic signs of infection must be considered charcot 's disease until proven otherwise . the principal treatment is total abstinence from putting weight on the foot until warmth , swelling , and redness subside . protective weight-bearing methods may then be slowly instituted . 
scalp pilomatrix carcinoma as an extra-axial mass . we report the ct , mri , and angiographic findings in a case of pilomatrix carcinoma that had invaded the temporal bone and presented itself as an extra-axial mass . even though bone destruction was better shown with ct , the tumor mass with its meningeal and tentorial extension was seen more clearly with mri . the arteriogram demonstrated a unique vascular supply from the external carotid artery . 
postanginal sepsis with dysphagia . we have described a 10-year-old girl who had dysphagia followed abruptly by arthritis . streptococcus pyogenes was identified as the pathogen by fasciotomy with bone biopsy , and a tonsillar fluid collection confirmed the diagnosis of postanginal sepsis . the patient was cured by a 6-week course of parenteral antibiotics . 
management of symptomatic lymphocele via percutaneous drainage and sclerotherapy with tetracycline . lymph collections following pelvic surgery are usually asymptomatic , but may occasionally produce symptoms requiring invasive therapy . we have successfully obliterated a large lymphocele by employing percutaneous drainage and instilling tetracycline . 
hypercalcemia in malignancy . the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in malignancy has been enigmatic until recent years . since the realization in 1980 that bioassays for parathyroid hormone detected a cross-reacting substance in malignancy , progress has been remarkably rapid . a parathyroid hormone-related protein was purified and identified by molecular cloning as a 141-amino acid peptide with limited homology to parathyroid hormone itself . nonetheless , both peptides activate the parathyroid hormone receptor to produce hypercalcemia . it is now clear that the parathyroid hormone-related protein is the cause of hypercalcemia in most solid tumors , particularly squamous and renal carcinomas . new assays for the hormone as well as the related peptide have greatly simplified the differential diagnosis of hypercalcemia . at the same time , new agents for the treatment of hypercalcemia are becoming available , most notably the bisphosphonate drugs . 
extremely low serum pyridoxal 5 ' - phosphate in children with familial hypophosphatemic rickets . the apparent vitamin b-6 status of 31 children with familial hypophosphatemic rickets ( fhr ) was determined . all children had alkaline phosphatase activity that was high-normal to elevated for their ages . a sensitive assay for pyridoxal 5 ' - phosphate ( plp ) indicated that 15 of the 31 children had an undetectable ( less than 0.2 nmol/l ) concentration of the vitamer -- the lowest values yet reported in human serum . the 16 remaining children had concentrations of the vitamer so low that they indicated a potential severe vitamin b-6 deficiency . however , none of the children had ever presented with any of the classical vitamin b-6-deficiency symptoms . treatment of three additional fhr children with 100 mg pyridoxine.hcl / d resulted in a moderate and transient elevation of their serum plp concentrations , a dramatic elevation of their erythrocyte plp concentrations , and no improvement in clinical condition . serum or plasma plp concentrations are an inappropriate index for determining vitamin b-6 status in people with fhr and perhaps in others with elevated alkaline phosphatase activity . 
